How much do you really understand about:
• Financial statements?
• Real estate?
• Stocks and bonds?
• Starting and selling businesses?



In general, investments come in one of three forms: paper securities,
such as stocks and bonds; tangible objects, such as gold
and real estate; and business ventures, such as franchises or
start-up companies.

BONDS
When a government agency or private corporation needs to raise
money, it offers or issues a bond. An investment banker determines
how much money the agency or corporation needs. what the interest
rate on the loan will be, and when the loan will be repaid. A bond
pays interest over a fixed period. An investor who buys a bond
intending to hold it to maturity need not worry about fluctuations in
the interest rate. However, for those who want to sell before maturity,
current interest rates are crucial. In the bond market, lower interest
rates in the marketplace raise bond prices, and higher rates lower
them. Thus as interest rates go up and down, a fixed-rate bond
becomes either more or less valuable.

Good debt is debt
that someone else
pays for you. Bad
debt is debt you
acquire with your
hard-earned
money.


"My banker has
never asked me for
my report card.
My banker wants
to see my financial
statement. "

financial planning.


Notes (IOUs)


intrinsic value.

fringe
benefits

Dividends
income statement

APR's annual percentage rates 
these are for credit cards


THE BALANCE SHEET
The balance sheet is self-explanatory: It balances the value of your
assets against the value of your liabilities. One half of the balance
sheet lists assets, the other half liabilities and your net worth:


The balance sheet indicates how much money you have and how
much money you owe, and the difference between the two at a
point in time.
From the balance sheet you can determine your personal equity or
net worth, which is the difference between the value of your total
assets and your total liabilities:

net worth =assets - liabilities

In other words, your net worth is how many assets you have left over
after paying off all your liabilities (bills and loans), or the shortfall
thereof. It is how much you are worth on the day the balance sheet is
drawn up. In the example of the fictional Max described later in this
section, as well as in the examples given later in Section 3, Rich
Dad's version of net worth is calculated along with a banker's version
of net worth. The difference between the two is the value of a
person's doodads.



THE INCOME STATEMENT
The income statement, also called a profit and loss statement,
measures income and expenses. One section of the statement lists
all income-either earned, passive, or portfolio-while the other
section lists all expenses.

Unlike the balance sheet, which is a snapshot of net worth at a
particular point in time, HIe income statement catalogs income and
expenses over a period of time. Preparing an income statement on a
regular basis. such as every few months, is a good way to measure
financial progress.

Income statements and balance sheets have a symbiotic relationship.
For example, the income statement helps in determining whether a
balance sheet entry should be listed as an asset or a doodad.

The income statement starts with gross income and ends with net
income. Gross income is money earned through a job or from a
business or investment. Net income, for our purposes, is that portion
of gross income pocketed after all expenses have been deducted
from it.

net income =gross income - expenses



CASH FLOW

Cash flow refers to the stream of cash coming in as income and
going out as expenses. Cash flow links balance sheets and income
statements, for better or worse. How cash is flowing determines a
person's degree of financial freedom


The cash flow of an asset travels from the assets column of the
balance sheet to the income section of the income statement:


A handy way to envision cash flow is to combine the income
statement and the balance sheet in a single financial statement.
Later on in Section 3 you'll be filling out and analyzing your own
financial statement. For now, it's enough just to see what a blank
statement looks like.
The financial statement is a critical element of the Rich Dad program,
for it shows you how cash is flowing and therefore determines your
degree of financial freedom. In your youth you got a report card for
school. Your financial statement is your report card for life.



TECHNICAL INVESTING TECHNIQUES

Short selling is borrowing shares from a broker and immediately
selling them, prior to an anticipated drop in the stock's price.
Should the price In fact go down, the investor can purchase
replacement shares at a lower cost and pocket the difference. If
the price goes up, however. the investor suffers a loss.

Margin buying is borrowing money from a brokerage firm to buy
securities. By law, up to 60 percent of the cost can be leveraged.
If the stock's value goes up, the investor enjoys a higher
percentage of return on his or her share of the investment. If the
value drops, the investor risks losing the cash outlay as well as
incurring debt, for the loan must be repaid.

An option is the right to buy (call) or sell (put) a stock at a
specified price within a stipulated period. Investors call when they
think the price of a security will rise, put when they think it will
fall. Options allow investors to make money on the market
without actually owning or selling stock.

A stop-loss order instructs a broker to sell a security
automatically if it falls to a certain price.


WHAT IS VESTING?
Vest means to grant possession or control of something. While
you are always in control of money that you contribute to a
pension fund, your employer's deposit is another matter. You are
fully vested, or entitled to all of the company's contributions no
matter what, after a maximum of either five or seven years of
service, depending on the schedule your employer adopts.


gung-ho

owner's equity as a shareholder

portfolio income














