WHAT ARE YOU THINKING?

When you look in a mirror, what do you whisper? Do you berate
yourself with comments like "I'm overweight" and "I'm getting old"? Or
do you stand tall and say "I look great!" A mirror reflects much more
than what your eyes see. A mirror reflects your inner thoughts and
your beliefs-your soul. Listen to the thoughts that come from your
soul. Are they negative? You'll never embark on the road to riches if
you let such thoughts constrain you.

"There is nothing more powerful than an idea whose
time has come, and there is nothing more vulnerable than
someone who is still thinking old ideas. "

THE NATTERING NABOBS OF NEGATIVISM
A well-known figure in the political world once coined the phrase
"nattering nabobs of negativism" to refer to habitual naysayers.
People will conjure up any number of excuses not to choose
wealth, excuses that say more about their inner thoughts than
about the difficulty of achieving wealth. Are you a nattering nabob
of negativism? Take a look at these excuses, and see if any
sound familiar:

"I can't give up a regular paycheck."
"Invest? You want me to lose all my money, don't you?"
"I don't have any money to invest."
"I tried that before. It'll never work:'
"I don't need to know how to read financial statements.
I can get by."
"I'm not smart enough."
"My husband would never go for it."
"My wife would never understand."
''What would my friends say?"
"I'm young. I've still got time."
"It's too late for me.
"You can't do that."


TALK BACK
If you're harboring negative thoughts, you need to understand what
they really mean. For example, if you tell yourself "I can't stop
working and start my own business-I have a mortgage and a family
to think about," you might really be saying "I don't have time, and I'm
too tired to learn anything new."
It's time to dig deep down and unearth your personal truths. Jot down
the negative statements you whisper to yourself and, after some
honest soul searching, record the personal truth that lies
beneath each:

negative thought 		personal truth
i can't do it 			i am to afraid to try

Sometimes we let negative statements play over and over in our
minds like endless mantras. Once you know the truth beneath your
negative statements, talk back to them. Start an argument with
yourself! Think of ways to counter each one.
If you're having trouble identifying what's holding you back, keep a
daily journal. Once your negative ways of thinking become clear, then
repeat this exercise. Don't let buried thoughts sap your energy and
motivation. Unearth them, and free yourself to move forward.


NURTURE YOUR BETTER SELF
Now that you've removed the mines blocking your path, consider the
positive traits that will propel you forward on your quest for financial
freedom. Here are some strengths that are common to people who
succeed in business and investing:
• Vision-the ability to see what others do not see
• Courage-the ability to act despite fear
• Creativity-the ability to think outside the box
• Self-confidence-the ability to withstand criticism
• Self-control-the ability to delay gratification
Look at people around you who demonstrate these strengthS.Try to
emulate them. And don't forget to look within. Are there areas in your
life where you've exhibited such traits? Nurture them and allow them
to spread into your financial life.


PREPARE FOR OPPORTUNITY
So far, you've been focusing on internal things that you have the
power to change. What happens when your internal self meets the
external world over which you have so little control? In truth, you
have more control over that world than you think. It has been said
that luck is what happens when opportunity meets preparedness.
Imagine two men walking down the street on a windy day. A piece of
paper blows along the sidewalk in front of one man, then the other.
The first man ignores the litter, keeping his eyes on the block up
ahead; the second man peers at the scrap, realizes it's a twenty
dollar bill, and picks it up. Is that person luckier? No. The same
opportunity crossed the path of both men, but only one of them was
prepared to take action.
When it comes to financial matters, it's important to keep your eyes
and ears open-and to know where you are. Only then will you spot
opportunity when it crosses your path.



THE 90/10 RULE
Throughout history, 90 percent of the money has been made by 10
percent of the people. For instance, 10 percent of the athletes make
90 percent of the money made by all athletes. This is one of the rules
of money that Rich Dad taught me. One reason the 90/10 rule has
applied is that 90 percent of the people choose comfort and security
over being rich. Most of these people do not realize they could
choose to be rich.
While the 90/10 rule still holds, it's being challenged by the changing
circumstances that the information age introduced. Thanks to the
electronic revolution, it is now possible for more and more people to
gain access to the world of wealth, for wealth now resides ifl
information that flies over the airwaves and through television and
computer networks. Information is not restricted to the few, as land
and resources were in past ages.
The Internet epitomizes this new avenue toward wealth, for it enables
the masses to gather information and interact with one another in
almost complete freedom. Today it's possible for people to take their
ideas and, with the help of this new-age medium, build products or
services around them. Network marketing, the selling of consumer
goods, investing, publishing-these are only a handful of the
thousands of on-line activities that have been launched by aspiring
entrepreneurs and savvy investors.
We've only just begun to see what kind of world is possible in this
new age of information, but I'll wager that in the near future, the
pressure of the information age is going to shatter the old 90/10 rule.
It has never been easier to choose to be rich.


CHANGING WITH THE TIMES
When I was a boy, Rich Dad used to say, "If you want to get rich, you
need financial literacy. You have to learn to be an investor." My
educated dad disagreed. "I don't need to learn how to invest," he'd
say. "I have a guaranteed government pension plan, a pension from
the Teachers Union, and Social Security benefits. Why take risks with
my money?" That's head-in-the-sand thinking. If you think your
financial security is the responsibility of a company or the
government, you're going to be sorely disappointed in the coming
years. You need to switch from industrial age to information
age thinking:

Industrial age thinking
• Study hard and find a safe,
secure job.
• Get a job and save money.
• Your pension and Social
Security will protect you in
retirement.
• Your income will go down when
you retire.
• Diversify your investments.
• Blue chip stocks and mutual
funds are safe investments.
• Put your investments in the
hands of someone else.

Information age thinking
• Study hard but also become
financially literate.
• Create assets on your own.
• Your pension and Social
Security will not support you in
retirement.
• Your income should increase
as you age.
• Concentrate your investments.
• Blue chip stocks and mutual
funds will not protect you if
there is a stock market crash.
• Watch your investments but seek
competent advisors,



People get old or obsolete because they cling to old ideas. Rich Dad
used to say, "You can't help but get older physically. That doesn't
mean you have to get older mentally." If you want to stay young
longer, adopt younger ideas.



MICHAEL
"I had my own real estate office and was working crazy hours,
manning the phone twenty-four hours a day. I thought because I was
working for myself that I was a business owner, even though I wasn't
achieving the sort of success I wanted. Then I started reading the
Rich Dad books and it hit me-I didn't own a business, 1 owned a job

"That revelation made all the difference in the world. Up till then, I'd
been doing everything on my own. Rich Dad taught me to draw on
the talents of other people to help me reach my financial goals. That
turned me from a self-employed person into a true business owner.
Now I've got ten agents working for me, and I'm reaping the benefits
of their efforts as well as my own."



DARRELL
"I was brought up with the idea of going to school, working hard, and
accepting the limits that come with being an employee. I dropped out
of college twice and started working for an insurance agency without
much success. When I first saw Rich Dad's ideas in print, it had a
huge impact on me. They made so much sense that I internalized
them quickly, and I realized that for my whole life I'd been trying to fit
into a mold that other people cast for me. I didn't want to be in that
mold-I wanted to be a business owner and investor.
"Now I have a real estate company that buys a lot of properties.
Thanks to the Rich Dad philosophy, we avoid buying property for the
wrong reasons. We only buy properties that will put money in our
pockets and not suck us dry. His concepts have kept me from going
bankrupt several times in this year alone. Rich Dad has helped me
focus my sights not on what others think is good for me, but on what
I want-wealth."


JONATHAN
"I grew up with the saying, Love of money is the root of all evil. That's
hard to overcome. When I came across the Rich Dad approach, I
saw that I was missing out in life because of my false ideas about
money.
"I'm self-employed and although I'm making pretty good money,
I know that the deck is stacked against my making more this way.
The Rich Dad approach has motivated me to take a serious look at
building a real business and making investments. One of the big
challenges for me is learning the financial end of things. That's what
is so phenomenal about Rich Dad: His information is so easy to
digest and apply. Rich Dad has provided a nice stepping-stone for
me as I re-direct my efforts away from self-employment toward
business and investing."

CHRISTINE
"I was a sole proprietor of an accounting business when I came into
contact with the Rich Dad way of doing things. That changed my way
of thinking forever. I didn't have a lot of money so I said, 'Okay, I've
got to take action,' and I approached someone with money who
became my business partner in a real estate venture. He's the
money side of it; I'm the one who finds the properties and manages
them. We've put a great team of people together and the business
has really taken off. In a year and a half, I've built up half a million
dollars in assets.
"It's amazing. Rich Dad made me realize that I had the ability to do
this-the confidence and the desire. After that, it was a matter of
gaining knowledge and building my team. So far, I've been doing
a series of small real estate deals. As Rich Dad would say, I've
mastered one formula and now it's time to master a new one. Now
that I've got the money, I'm preparing myself to do a big deal as soon
as the opportunity presents itself."


LEARN FROM YOUR MISTAKES

Most of us grew up thinking that mistakes are bad and should be
avoided at all cost. We tend to correlate mistakes with low
intelligence: The more mistakes you make, the dumber you are. In
Rich Dad's mind, however, mistakes were opportunities to learn
something new. "There's a bit of magic hidden in every mistake," he
told me. "That magic is called learning." Instead of telling me how to
avoid mistakes, Rich Dad taught me the art of turning a mistake into
an opportunity to gain wisdom.


It's not easy to learn from our mistakes and setbacks. How we react
to them tells us who we are. Here is a cast of characters that Rich
Dad drew up to describe different reactions to financial setbacks.
Which character are you?



The Liar "I don't know how that happened:'

The Blamer "The customers are too stupid to buy my product."

The Justifier "I didn't really want to be rich anyway:'

The Quitter "I told you it would never work. This is too
complicated, I give up:' 

The Denier "No, there's nothing wrong. What mistake?
Things will work out."


After recognizing that you've made a mistake, it's difficult not to let
one of these characters take over. So go ahead, bang your head
against the wall. Lie. Whine. Complain. If you're ever going to get your
financial house in order, however, eventually you need to let another
character, the Responsible You, take control of your thinking. The
Responsible YOLl asks, "What priceless lesson can I learn from
this mistake?"

Think back on three financial mistakes you've rnada WhAt lessons
can you learn from those mistakes? Take a few moments to record
your thoughts.



MANAGING RISK

"Some ofthe
biggest failures I
know are people
who have never
failed. "

One of the valuable lessons I learned from my own mistakes was how
to manage risk. Like it or not, risk is a part of investing, whether you
invest in paper securities, the real estate market, or a business of your
own. Everyone who has built a fortune from scratch has felt on the
edge of a cliff at one time or another. If you're going to get rich, at some
time you'll have get close to the edge of the cliff, too. But that doesn't
mean you have to jump. It's quite possible to make investments that
receive high returns with low risk, and you can learn how.

As I've said, too many people rely on big government or a big company
to eliminate the financial risk in their lives.They play it safe in their jobs,
buy houses and cars and, if they don't have pensions, put a little money
aside monthly for retirement plans. This was the path of Poor Dad.
What's wrong with this scenario? Plenty. Today, more and more
people are graduating with good grades and advanced degrees, but
there are fewer and fewer secure jobs with benefits. Rich Dad taught
me differently. He said that working for someone else just created the
illusion of security-that it was much riskier than investing or starting
your own business. To Poor Dad, investing was risky; to Rich Dad,
not investing was risky.

As you move forward in this work/study program, you're going
to learn that true investing is not a gambling game of hunches,
but rather a plan. Once you become financially literate and
begin enacting your own plan, whether through investing, building
businesses, or both, it's likely that your ideas about what is risky and
what is not will have changed.





FEAR: I'm putting my money in a savings account.
Investing is for high rollers.

FACT: Investing isn't a gamble, it's a plan. Once you
become financially literate, your ideas about
what is risky-and about how to invest your
money-will have changed.

FREEDOM: Enact a sound plan, and you can turn risk
into riches.


A RISK SELF-ASSESSMENT
Before you reach that point, it's helpful to get a sense of your overall
risk tolerance. No matter what you do in your financial life, there IS
always the possibility of losing some money. How comfortable are
you with this possibility? The following questions are meant to get
you thinking about your general attitude toward risk:

• Do you get bored easily? Are you usually looking for a new
challenge, or do you like to stick with what you know?
• Do you feel confident that you can handle whatever comes your
way, or do you tend to worry?
• When you lose something valuable, do you get anxious and
obcoee about it, or arc you able to accept the loss and move on?

• How easily can you turn important matters over to others? Do you
trust experts to act on your behalf, or do you prefer to handle
everything yourself?
In Sections 2 and 3, you'll learn more about financial risk and how
to handle it. The more financially educated you are, the less risk
you'll face. By the time you complete the Rich Dad program, you'll
know the truth of this statement: On the road to riches some risk is
inevitable, but if you keep a cool head and improve your financial
literacy, you can manage it.


IOVERCOME THE
SIX OBSTACLES
Knowing how to manage risk is one of the prerequisites of financial
literacy. Once you've fulfilled all the prerequisites and become fully
literate, does financial freedom follow? Not necessarily. Certain
personal obstacles can prevent even the most financially literate from
developing abundant wealth. Despite all their knowledge, they'll
continue working full time just to pay the bills instead of living the life
they dream. By learning to recognize these personal obstacles, you
can overcome them. What are they?
1 Fear
2 Cynicism
3 Laziness
4 Bad habits
5 Arrogance
6 Disappointment



OBSTACLE 1: FEAR
Fear of losing money is the main reason 90 percent of the
American public struggles financially. But fear isn't the real problem.
It's IIOW people handle fear that matters. Rich Dad used to tell me
that the primary difference between rich people and poor people is
how they handle the fear of losing money. Some people, when hit
with a financial loss, give up. Others transform the loss into a win.
As John D. Rockefeller said, "I always tried to turn every disaster
into an opportunity." Losers are defeated by failure. Winners are
inspired by it.
Rich Dad often commented that the real reason for lack of financial
success was that people played it too safe. "People are so afraid of
losing money that they do lose it," he would say. If they have some
cash, they buy big houses and big cars rather than big investments.

Or they invest all of their money in balanced portfolios-in CDs and
low-yield bonds and mutual funds and a few individual stocks. These
are people, driven by fear, playing not to lose. Of course, a balanced
portfolio is a lot better than no portfolio. It seeks safety through
diversity. Having a financial plan for security and comfort first are
important. But if you have any desire to become rich, you must focus,
not diversify. You must put a lot of eggs in a few baskets rather than
putting a few eggs in many.

If the prospect of failure frightens you, then play it safe. Keep your
daytime job until you have enough cash to buy bonds and mutual
funds and consult with a financial planner. But if the prospect of
failure inspires you to fight and win, maybe you should challenge
yourself to change your financial habits. Educate yourself and take
some financial risks. The more education you have, the less risk
there will be.

FEAR I'll lose all my money if I invest in anything riskier
than CDs, bonds, and mutual funds.

Fact  If you Jose some money, you can Jearn from the
failure. Once you become an educated investor
you'll be positioned to reap potentially huge
rewards.

Freedom Financial failure can be transformed into
financial gain.


OBSTACLE 2: CYNICISM
All of us have some Chicken Little in us. You remember Chicken
Little-the character in the children's fable who ran around the
barnyard warning other animals that the sky was falling. Chicken
Little had a doom and gloom attitude toward life. He was a
classic cynic.
There are Chicken Littles everywhere, especially in the financial
world. If you want to be rich, you need to stop listening to their
clucking. The-sky-is-falling warnings from financial cynics are just a
lot of empty noise. We hear that noise all around us, from friends,
family, co-workers, and the media, and we tend to succumb to it
because inside each of us there is a little bit of chicken.


Why should we ignore the cynics? Because cynics never win. They're
do-nothing alarmists who spend all their time spreading fear. It's the
people who read a situation correctly who end up winning-the
analysts. Cynicism blinds you to opportunities, while analysis opens
your eyes to possibilities. One leads to paralysis, the other to action.
Peter Lynch of Fidelity Magellan recalls the time during the 1950s
when the threat of nuclear war was so prevalent that people began
building expensive fallout shelters and storing food and water. Had
they used their hard-earned dollars to make some wise investments
instead, those Chicken Littles would probably be financially
independent today.

How good are you at filtering out cynical noise? Think of things you
don't want to happen and things you do want to happen. If your I don't-
wants outweigh your I-wants, you may be letting doubt and fear
close your mind instead of open your eyes.


CHASE AWAY CHICKEN LITTLE
If you're a Chicken Little, the story of Colonel Sanders might
inspire you to change your attitude of doom and gloom. At the
age of sixty-six Colonel Sanders lost his business and found that
Social Security wasn't enough to live on. So he went around the
country trying to sell his recipe for fried chicken. He was turned
down 1,009 times before someone said yes. And he went on to
become a multimillionaire at an age when most people are
retiring With a small pension. If you're in doubt and feeling afraid,
do what Colonel Sanders did to his little chicken-he fried it.


OBSTACLE 3: LAZINESS
Busy people are often the laziest. Busyness is a form of avoidance. If
you stay busy you can avoid some of the things you don't want to
face-like exercising, or taking care of your wealth.
What's the cure for laziness? A little greed. Wait a minute, you say.
Isn't greed bad? Too much of it, yes. An excess of anything is bad.

The fact is, however, that all of us secretly harbor a desire to have
new or exciting things. We've been told by our parents and others to
suppress that desire. We've been made to feel guilty about it. How
many children have asked a parent for something and gotten the
response, "Do you think I'm made of money?" In truth, guilt is worse
than greed. Guilt stifles dreams.



FEar: I wish I could invest, but I'm too busy and can't
afford to invest.

Fact: Busyness is a form of laziness and avoidance.
Instead of saying, "I can't afford it,"ask yourself
how you can afford it.

Freedom: The question"HoW can I afford ItT opens up
avenues to our dreams.


When we stop saying "Life is too hectic to change if' and say,
instead, "It's time to exit this rat race and find new ways to earn
wealth," we begin to cure ourselves of our busy laziness.
RICH OAO'S TIP

"The words I can't afford it' close your mind, while the
words, 'How can 1 afford it?'open your mind. The
human spirit is powerful-it knows it can do anything. "
Rich Dad used to say, "The phrase 'I don't want' holds the key to your
success." I saw what he meant when 1 got into real estate and quickly
learned that I didn't want to fix toilets. By finding a property manager
who could fix toilets, I was freed up to buy a lot more real estate. And
as a result, my cash flow increased.



Go ahead, be greedy, if that's what your heart is telling you to do.
Make a list of what you really want, and don't limit it according to
someone else's idea of what you shouldn't have-be truthful
with yourself.

Things I Want

......
......



When your list is complete, step back and appraise it. Don't ask
yourself whether you can afford the things on your list, but rather how
you can afford them. This fresh appraisal will create a stronger mind
and a more dynamic spirit. helping you to shed your lazy ways.


OBSTACLE 4: BAD HABITS

When you pay your bills at the first of the month, do you have
anything left over? Probably not. If so, that's the main reason you're
struggling financially-you have bad habits. The worst financial habit
is paying your creditors before you pay yourself. That doesn't mean
you shouldn't pay your bills on time. What it does mean is that you
should pay yourself first-even if you're short of money.

Rich Dad told me to do this once. I was perplexed. "How can you
pay yourself first?" I asked him. "It's all a matter of motivation," he
replied. "Who will scream louder if they aren't paid-you or your
creditors?" The answer was obvious: the creditors. "Precisely,"
he went on. "Creditors are bullies. And because they're bullies,
the pressure to pay them will be so great that it will force you to
seek sources of income other than what you're making working
for someone else." Rich Dad was right. What laziness won't get
you to do, pressure will. By paying yourself first, you'll become
mentally and financially stronger, and better equipped to vanquish
the bullies.


Arrogance is ego plus ignorance



OBSTACLE 5: ARROGANCE
Arrogance is ego plus ignorance. The ignorance is hidden behind
the ego. Many people try to bluster their way through financial
discussions when they don't know what they're talking about. They're
not lying, but they're not telling the truth either. The world of finance
is full of people who don't know what they're talking about.
In financial matters, it's easy to stumble over your own ignorance and
fail. When you're arrogant you believe that what you don't know is
unimportant. In truth, what yuu don't knuw ts as important as what
you do know. Instead of arrogantly hiding your ignorance and bluffing
your way to failure. start educating yourself for success.


WHAT'S YOUR ARROGANCE BAROMETER?
How much do you really understand about:
• Financial statements?
• Real estate?
• Stocks and bonds?
• Starting and selling businesses?

For each of these subjects you could rate yourself on a scale of
1 to 10, then come up with a quantitative tally. But you don't need
to. That's because the real measure of your arrogance is brutal
honesty. In your heart you're aware of what it is you don't know, no
matter how well hidden from the world it may be. Go ahead, admit
your ignorance. Then instead of chastising yourself, read on.


«Prepare yourself
for disappointment,
and you'll turn
disappointment
into an asset. "



OBSTACLE 6: DISAPPOINTMENT
Do you react with disappointment when things don't go as you'd
hoped? When I left the Marine Corps, Rich Dad recommended that 1
get a job that taught me to sell. He knew I was shy and that learning
to sell would help me succeed.

For two years, I was the worst salesman in my company. My
tendency was to blame my failure on the economy, or the product I
was selling, or even the customers. Rich Dad would say, "When
people are lame, they love to blame."To learn to sell, I had to face
the pain of disappointment. Eventually I did learn how, and along with
the skills of salesmanship came a priceless lesson: how to turn
disappointment into an asset rather than a liability.

Many people turn disappointment into a long-term liability. "I should
have known I would fail"-these are the words of people who have let
disappointment stop them from learning. As you get ready to embark
on your journey to financial freedom, I offer you the same advice
Rich Dad offered me: "Prepare yourself for disappointment:' Why?
Because if you're prepared for disappointment, you have a chance of
turning disappointment into an asset.

Preparing yourself for disappointment doesn't mean you won't still be
upset and concerned. But if you're prepared, you won't beat up on
yourself too hard. This is important, since being too hard on yourself
will make you overly cautious about taking risks or trying new
ideas. If you can face your failures, control your emotions, and use
disappointment to learn new financial skills, you'll flourish.



Fear: I've been disappointed one too many times.
Never again.

Fact: Instead of running from disappointment, prepare
for it. That doesn't mean preparing to accept failure
passively. It means getting ready mentally and
emotionally to learn.

Freedom : If you're prepared, you'll react with calm to failure,
learn from it, and move on.



WILL YOU THINK LIKE RICH DAD
OR POOR DAD?
Can you overcome the six obstacles? Let them hinder you, and YOU'll
find yourself following the path of Poor Dad, working harder and
harder for money and having less and less time with your family.
Conquer them, and you'll find yourself following the path of Rich Dad,
full of confidence and having your money work hard for you.


Poor Dad
"Go to school and make
good grades."
"Get a safe, secure job."
"Work hard and save."
"Work for money:'
"Pay your creditors first."
"Save money by shopping for
bargains."
"Don't buy something you
can't afford:'
"Investing is risky:'
"Your house is an asset."
''The rich are greedy."
"Money is a necessary evil."

Rich Dad
"Become financially literate:'
"Build businesses."
"Don't save, invest."
"Let money work for you:'
"Pay yourself first."
"Make money by shopping for
investments that will go up
in value."
"Ask yourself how you can
afford if'
"Not investing is risky."
"Your house is a liability."
"The rich are generous."
"Money is power."


FINDING YOUR PASSION

Poor Dad's slogans are the words of fear; Rich Dad's slogans are the
words of passion. While fear reflects disappointment and passivity,
passion reflects confidence and energy. What builds wealth isn't fear,
but passion. Sometimes it is called a strong business mission.

I know that from personal experience. In 1977 I launched a
manufacturing company that was one of HIe first to make nylon and
velcro wallets. The company's growth was meteoric, but stiff
competition soon forced us to move our manufacturing operations to
southeast Asia. When I inspected our new overseas factories and
saw the cruel conditions under which people were forced to work, it
drained some of my passion. I no longer wanted to become rich jf it
meant exploiting low-paid workers. My business began to sag.

Rich Dad recognized that my enthusiasm for the company was gone.
"Let the manufacturing company go," he advised me. "It's time to build
a business around your heart-around your passion. Have a strong
business mission." We both knew what that passion was: teaching. I
may not have acquired financial intelligence from Poor Dad, but I had
picked up his love of teaching.

So in 1985, my wife Kim and I packed up everything we owned and
moved to California to start an educational business based on
exciting new teaching methods. It wasn't easy. We quickly depleted
our savings and exhausted our credit cards. We lived in the
basement of a friend's house. Uncertainty and self-doubt plagued us.

We knew what we wanted-financial freedom-but we didn't know if
this new business would enable us to reach that goal.

Despite our fears we followed our hearts and kept on, and in less
than five years we had a multimillion dollar business with eleven
offices throughout the world. We had built a business around a new
approach to education, and the market loved it. Our passion for the
business and its mission made it happen.

Do you know what your passion or mission is? Many people don't,
and they have a hard time finding it. To find your passion or mission
you have to dig deep inside. Here are some questions to get
you started:

• Are there any activities or thoughts that absorb you so thoroughly
you lose track of time?
• What subjects do you find most exciting to talk about?
• Who are your heroes? What is it about them that you admire and
want to emulate?
• Do you have any skills or talents that inspire self-confidence
and pride?
• When you have a free afternoon, how do you choose to spend it?
• If you had all the money you needed to pursue a hobby or a
special project, what would it be?
• Do you subscribe to magazines or read books? What sort of
reading material excites you?
• If you could develop a "dream" business for yourself, what would
it be?


It may help to talk about your passions with people whom you know
well and trust. Sometimes other people can read our souls when we
can't. Once you become aware of your passion, you can determine
your mission and begin to feed it. This in turn will feed the drive that
will make your dreams come true.


CHOOSE TO BE RICH
I have the passion to get rich, you might be thinking, but how do I
actually do it? Getting rich isn't just a matter of luck, or inheritance,
or having a brilliant idea. People who inherit wealth, and the few who
win it by way of the lottery, assume the burden of watching over their
new-found riches lest they lose them. As for brilliant ideas, they're
nothing but dead ideas without a thriving business system to give
them life. More than anything, getting rich is a matter of confidence of
changing your thinking from "I can't" to "How can I?" Once you
commit to this way of thinking, once you make up your mind not to let
anything get in the way of success, you'll be on your way.You won't
get rich-you'll choose to be rich.


People who become trapped in the lifelong process of
bill paying are like gerbils running in wheels. Their legs
move furiously, their wheels spin on and on, and in the
end they're in the same place they started-nowhere.
They keep working and working and their incomes go up, but then so
do their taxes and the charges on their credit cards. Buying a home
and a car, going on vacations, paying for the children's education,
saving for retirement-these successive challenges prevent the bill
payers, no matter how well educated they may be, from ever getting
ahead. This doesn't have to be your fate. You can escape the rat
race. What you need to do is change the way you think about work
and money.


In the following pages, you'll encounter some of the strateoles Rich
Dad taught me to get out of the rat race and become a business
owner and investor. Read this chapter once, twice, as many times as
it takes to absorb the radical way of thinking that was Rich Dad's gift
to me. It took me years before I fully absorbed his lessons. I would
jump off the wheel only to jump right back on, uncertain whether
to follow his advice or Poor Dad's. But those years of indecision
and struggle were well worth it. Thanks to Rich Dad's persistence
as a teacher, eventually I absorbed his strategies and put them to
work. After all the blood, sweat, and tears, at last I was able to
jump off the wheel for good and start my journey down the path to
financial freedom.
I am not saying, "Quit your job." I am saying, ''Take responsibility
for your financial future." Consider starting a part-time business
on the side.
What were those priceless strategies that Rich Dad taught me?

In a nutshell:
1 Become financially literate
2 Work to learn
3 Find mentors, build a team
4 Work for yourself
5 Create money
6 Give back
Chapter 2:
Rich Dad's Get
Rich Strategies




"STRATEGY 1:BECOME
FinancIALLY:"LITERATE

The key to riches is becoming financially literate. It's a strategy Rich
Dad drummed into my head every time we were together, even as
Poor Dad was stressing the importance of reading books and going
to school. Unfortunately, schools don't teach financial literacy. That's
why my hard-working, educated dad was getting nowhere. Rich Dad
may not have been school educated, but because he was financially
educated, he left the rat race behind and became a business owner
and investor.

Look at it this way: If you're going to build the Empire State Building,
the first thing you need to do is dig a deep hole and pour a strong
foundation. Most people, in their drive to get rich, try to build an
Empire State Building on a six-inch slab" What they end up with is a
Leaning Tower of Debt that threatens to come tumbling down. If you
want to build riches and hold on to them, you need a strong
foundation of financial literacy.

Financial literacy requires proficiency in several areas: economic
history, accounting, taxes, investing, and building businesses. These
are difficult subjects to master, particularly accounting and investing.
But don't let the level of difficulty scare you off. Anyone can master
these subjects, including you. It's a matter of choosing to do so, then
moving through the subject material at a pace that suits your
individual learning style. Becoming financially literate has nothing to
do with how far you got in school. Don't worry if you weren't an A
student. Don't worry if you're currently working as a janitor, or
gardener, or garbage collector, or even if you're unemployed. What
matters is whether you're willing to educate yourself. If so, you can
become a business owner and investor and eventually achieve
financial freedom.


WORK TO LEARN
As I mentioned in the last chapter, job security meant everything to
Poor Dad. Learning meant everything to Rich Dad. Poor Dad
thought I was going to the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy to learn
to be a ship's officer. Rich Dad knew that I went there to study
international trade. The academy sent me on cargo runs to the Far
East and the South Pacific, where I learned the art of navigating
large freighters, oil tankers, and passenger ships. By the time I
graduated from the academy in 1969, I had acquired a wealth of
information about trade, people, business styles, and cultures
in Japan, Taiwan, Thailand, Singapore, and elsewhere-information
that would playa crucial role in the success of my later
business ventures.

I left the merchant marine for the Marine Corps, ostensibly to learn
how to fly a plane, but really to learn how to be a leader. I went to
Vietnam, and when I returned in 1973 I resigned my commission,
though I loved flying, to take a sales job with the Xerox
Corporation. I took this job not for the salary and the benefits, but
to overcome my shyness and learn all about marketing and sales.
Xerox has one of the best sales-training programs in America. Rich
Dad was proud of me for taking the job; my educated dad was
ashamed because he thought I should have looked for a more
"intellectual" job.

Three years later, shortly before my thirtieth birthday, I left Xerox to
form my own company. It was time to test all that I had learned. If I
failed, I would be broke. My educated dad thought I was crazy to give
up job security. Rich Dad thought it was a great idea to strike out on
my own. "If you run the risk of going broke," he said, ''you should do it
before the age of thirty.You'll still have time to recover."


Most people focus on working for pay that rewards them in the
short term; over the long term, this strategy can be disastrous
because it doesn't build up enough assets for a stress-free
retirement. If you want to be financially free, you need to seek work
for what you'll learn, not for what you'll earn. The skills you learn
when you work for someone else can be invaluable when you
begin to work for yourself-and if you want to be financially free,
you'll have to work for yourself. You'll have to become an investor.
(But that doesn't necessarily mean you will have to start your
own company, a subject that I'll address soon.)


"My banker has
never asked me for
my report card.
My banker wants
to see my financial
statement. "



More businesses
fail from lack of
leadership than
from any other
single factor.


THE SKILLS YOU'LL NEED
Are you working? Are the skills you're learning in your current job
those you'll need to become financially free? To achieve that goal,
you'll have to be experienced in the following:
• Leadership
• Management
• Sales and marketing


Leadership is critical. When J was in Vietnam, the commanding
officer of my squadron said, "Gentlemen, your most important job
is to ask your troops to risk their lives for you, your team, and your
country." Leadership is just as important in business as in war.
More businesses fail from lack of leadership than from any other
single factor.

Management is twofold: management of cash flow and management
of business systems. To manage a company's cash flow properly, you
have to know how to read financial statements and analyze sales
and accounts receivable and expenses and accounts payable. If you
can learn to run a business on the basis of the numbers revealed on
its financial statements, you'll be positioning yourself for success.

To manage business systems properly, you have to understand that a
company is a complex network of interdependent systems,
everything from product or service development to computer systems
to human resources. For the business to grow, all systems have to
operate with maximum efficiency-a leak in any single one can
cause the entire ship to sink.

Sales and marketing are no less important than leadership and
management. To be good in sales and marketing, you have to learn
how to communicate effectively. If you can't speak or write well, you
won't convince people that your product or service is worth buying. I
have friends who are geniuses, but because they can't communicate
well with others, they're poor. The world is full of smart poor people.


All of these skills-leadership, management, and sales and
marketing-are things you can learn through the experience of
working. Take a moment to make an honest inventory of your
personal business skills.

If your current job isn't teaching you these skills and you want to be
financially free, then you may want to seek a new job. Remember,
you're an apprentice. Find a job in which you'll be working to learn,
not earn. The skills you develop as an employee can help you take
control of your own financial life.

Again, I am not telling you to quit your job. Your personal financial life
is your business. Even employees need to learn how to become
investors and business owners.

«Cynics criticize
and winners
analyze. "

FIND MENTORS,
BUILD ATEAM

In addition to working to learn-that is, while you are working to
learn-you need to seek out mentors and advisors who can teach
you the valuable skills you'll need to become a business owner and
investor. No one climbs Mount Everest alone, and you shouldn't try
to climb your personal financial mountain without the aid of others.
Without support, you'll never reach the top.

"The world is
full of smart
poor people.

WHAT IS A MENTOR?

A mentor is a successful person whom you'd like to emulate. A
mentor is distinctly different from someone who tells you how to do
something-someone who instructs but whose experience is limited.
Rich Dad was my first real mentor. He didn't just dispense advice; by
building his business and using it to invest, Rich Dad had actually
accomplished what I wanted to accomplish.

Rieh Dad wasn't my only mentor. Back in 1996, through a mutual
friend, 1met a man I'll call Peter. He is a distinguished and articulate
man who has had his own companies listed on the American and
New York Stock Exchanges and on the NASDAQ. During the course
of his career, he's taken nearly 100 companies public. At the time of
our meeting, Peter had done everything that 1wanted to do. He was
a man who guarded his privacy, and the challenge for me was how 1
could convince him to take me on as an apprentice.

Over the course of several months, I pressed my case with Peter and
finally got him to agree to a meeting to talk it over. I told him that I
could support myself and my wife with the income from my real
estate investments and that I would work for him for free if he would
teach me everything he knew. Naturally he was skeptical. But once
he saw that I was serious, he decided to take my offer on a
trial basis.

There was a bankrupt gold mine in Peru he was considering buying.
He asked me to drop everything and fly to Peru at my own expense,
inspect the mine, meet with a bank and find out how much it wanted
for the mine, then fly home and give him a report. That caught me off
guard! At first I hesitated. I had appointments scheduled for that
week. Moreover, I wasn't sure I was up to the challenge. But deep
inside I knew this was a defining moment for me.

Fear:I have someone I'd like as a mentor, but he'd
never give me the time of day.

Fact: That's your fear and self-doubt speaking. Work
up the courage to approach this person by
focusing on your goal of financial freedom. Be
polite but firm-show him how sincere and
determined you are. Then offer something in'
return for teaching you.

Freedom: Swallow your fear, and you'll find a mentor who
will help guide you on your financial journey.


In those few seconds, I realized that if I chose not to go to Peru I
would lose this valuable potential mentor. Setting aside self-doubt
and swallowing all excuses, I decided to take a leap into the
unknown. "Okay, Peter. I'll do lt," I flew to Peru and inspected the
mine. It turned out to be an unwise investment, and I recommended
against his buying it. He agreed with my findings and, more
important, agreed to teach me. For almost a year and a half I worked
as an apprentice to Peter, after which he offered me a partnership in
his private venture-capital company. Since then, my association with
him has been personally rewarding and financially profitable. And it
wouldn't have been possible if I hadn't asked him to be my mentor.
By shunninq doubt and excuses, I Y<:1illeu the courage needed to
take the next step toward my financial goals.


"Business is a
team sport.


if you want to be
rich. don't work
for a business-own
a business



RiCh Dad's central strategy tor achieving financial freedom was to build
a business of his own. His reasoning was that most people work
first for the owners of the companies that employ them, then for the
government through taxes, and finally for the banks that own their
mortgages. No wonder they have little left at the end of their working
days! To escape the rat race, Rich Dad would say, you need to work for
yourself.You may be saying, "But the odds of a start-up succeeding are
against me-nine out of ten companies fail within five vearsr rnstead,
say to yourself, "One out of every ten businesses succeeds within five
years, and mine will be one!" You have to be very detarmined lt you
want to build your own business, but if you are, you'll have a head start
down the path to financial freedom. If you choose not to start a
business, then you can still achieve financial freedom, albeit more
slowly, by keeping your expenses low, reducing your liabilities, and
diligently building a base of solid assets.

You'll see what I mean in the list below. Check any assets you own:

o Businesses that don't require your presence (you own them, but
they're managed or run by other people; if you're self-employed
and have to work, your work isn't a business, it's a job)
o Stocks
D Bonds
D Mutual funds
o Income-generating real estate
D Notes (IOUs)
D Intellectual property, such as copyrights on books, music, and
scripts and patents on inventions that may generate royalty
income, just to name a few.
D Anything else that produces income or appreciates in value and
can be readily sold

If you checked off all of the above, you can stop reading. Chances
are, however, that you're here because you can only check three or
fewer of these asset categories. If that's the case, then you're reading
the right book. You'll learn all about these investments in Section 2.



"Money isn't real," Rich Dad once told me. "It's an idea." It took me
some time to absorb this lesson, but I finally did, and then I used it to
make myself rich. You can do the same. Here's a simple example: In
the early 1990s, the real estate market in my hometown of Phoenix,
Arizona, was horrible. Houses that were once $100,000 had
plummeted to around $75,000. Although short of cash, I recognized
that this was a good time to buy. Instead of shopping at the local real
estate office, I began shopping at a bankruptcy attorney's office and
at the county courthouse. Soon I came across a great deal: a
$75,000 house for only $20,000. With a $2,000 ninety-day loan, for
which I paid $200 in interest, I made a down payment on the
property. Within days I resold the house for the still-bargain price of
$60,000. I had created a $40,000 profit for myself out of essentially
nothing. Total work effort: five hours over a few days' time.
In the last chapter, I talked a little about the information age. The
information age allows some individuals to get ridiculously rich from
nothing more than ideas and agreements. Just ask people who trade
stocks for a living. They see it all the time. Today, It'S not at all out of
the ordinary for millions to be made instantaneously out of nothing.
By nothing, I mean no money was exchanged. Deals are clinched
with a hand signal in a trading pit, a blip on a trader's screen, a call
to a broker to buy and a second call a few moments later to sell.
Money doesn't change hands in these transactions-agreements do.

How can you create money? By doing any of the following:
• Finding an opportunity that everyone else has missed. A friend
of mine bought a rundown house that nobody else wanted. He
tore the house down, subdivided the property into five lots, and
within two months sold the whole package to a builder for
$75,OOo-three times what he'd paid for it.



Working with knowledgeable people to help you reach your
financial goals. This goes back to the advice I gave you earlier
about building a team. You don't want to jump at every moneymaking
opportunity, just the smart ones. Having a team of skilled
advisors can help you quickly identify the good deals.


GIVE BACK


While you're pondering Rich Dad's get rich strategies, there's one
more you should consider: charitable giving. Many people think the
rich are all greedy. That's not true. Some rich people are greedy, just
as some poor people are. But for every greedy rich person there is a
rich person who understands the importance of giving, and society is
the better for it. Rich Dad was no exception. He strongly believed that
to make a fortune and then hoard it was a misuse of money's power.
"When you create wealth," he said, "it's your responsibility to return it
to society!' Rich Dad practiced what he preached. He set up a
foundation that gives generous amounts of money to charitable
causes, including cancer research. The foundation is so well directed
that it will continue to earn and donate money to worthy causes for
many years to come.

Rich Dad taught me that giving back was a necessary step in getting
rich. There are strategies for giving, and the richer you get, the more
sophisticated your philanthropic strategies will become. Later, you'll
learn that charitable giving reduces your taxable income, enabling
you to give to causes close to your heart rather than just to Uncle
Sam. But this is jumping the gun. For now, while you're thinking about
Rich Dad's strategies for acquiring wealth, you should also be
thinking about how you might best give away the wealth those
strategies will reap for you. Indeed, even before you become wealthy,
you should adopt the practice of giving. Why? Because giving will
help teach you to take control of your cash flow.

instead of risking your plans for financial freedom, will actually enhance them. But there's another,
more important reason for giving. Newton's law states, "For every
action there is a reaction." If you're a greedy Scrooge, people will
respond to you in kind. You have to give money to get it back.
Remember, give and you shall receive.



Fear: How can I give to charity if I can't even pay my
own bills?

Fact: Charitable giving is a part of an overall strategy
for taking control of your cash flow. If you start
giVing at the same time that you start building
assets. your assets will still grow because you've
chosen to adopt a fiscally responsible path for
yourself.

Freedom: Instead of risking your financial freedom, giving
will enhance it.


One of the reasons the rich get richer is that they make money as investors, not as workers. 
The rich are on the right side of the cashflow quadrant. 


Before putting any of Rich Dad's get rich strategies into
action, you need to figure out where you are, for if you
don't know where you are you can't know where you're
going. To help you get your bearings, I've devised a
diagram made up of four quadrants. You inhabit at least one of these
quadrants; which of them depends on where your cash comes from.
The diagram is called the CASHFLOW Quadrant. It looks like this:

	E|B
	S|I

E employee
S self-employed worker
B Business owner
I Investor


Where you are in the CASHFLOW Quadrant is determined by how
you generate income. Employees earn income by working for other
people. Self-employed people earn income by working for
themselves-they own their jobs. Business owners earn income from
the businesses they own. Investors earn income from their
investments-from money generating more money. Think about how
you generate most of your income. In which quadrant do you
primarily fall? Knowing the answer will help you chart your course
into the future.


DIFFERENT QUADRANTS,
DIFFERENT PEOPLE

Generally speaking, people in the B and I quadrants reach their
financial goals more quickly than people in the E and S quadrants.
The good news for you, if you inhabit the left side of the quadrant, is
that you don't have to be stuck there. You can move to the right side.
Indeed, if you want to be financially free you have to move to the
right side-if not to the B quadrant, then at least to the I quadrant.
Moving quadrants is a matter of choice and financial education.
Changing quadrants means altering who you are, how you think,
and how you look at the world. The change is easier for some
people than for others simply because some welcome change
while others fight it.



THE E (EMPLOYEE)
People in the E quadrant dread economic uncertainty and have a
strong need for security. They're often heard to say, "I'm not that
interested in money."What this really means is they're not interested
in making the life-transforming changes necessary to leave the E
quadrant nest. For them, job security-which may be just an
illusion-is often more important than money.
Employees can be janitors or presidents of companies. It's not what
they do or how much they earn that makes them Es, but rather
the fact that they're working for others-and earning salaries and
benefits. A benefit is a defined and assured compensation over
and above salary. It is the E type's security blanket.


THE S (SELF-EMPLOYED)
S types are do-it-yourselfers and their own bosses. When it comes
to money, Ss have fiercely independent souls. They don't like to
have their income depend on other people. If they work hard they
expect to be paid well. They also understand that if they don't
work, they won't get paid. While E types often respond to the fear
of not having money by seeking security, Ss respond by taking
the proverbial bull by the horns, working ever harder to rack up
hours and hourly wages.


S types respond to the fear of not having money by
working harder. Eventually they may burn out trying
to do everything themselves. "


This group includes professionals such as doctors, lawyers, and
architects, who spend years in school. It also includes small business
owners-for example, retail shopkeepers, restaurant owners,
consultants, therapists, travel agents, car mechanics, plumbers, and
hair stylists-as well as direct-commission salespeople such as real
estate agents.

S types tend to be hard-core perfectionists. That's why others hire
them. When you hire a brain surgeon, you want the best The same
goes for hiring a dentist, hair stylist, electrician, or lawyer. Because of
their perfectionism, they often have a difficult time hiring other people
to work with them. To their way of thinking, no one else can do the
work as well as they can. S types may also be hesitant to train other
people out of fear that their trainees will wind up being competitors
some day.
For people in the S quadrant, independence, the freedom to do
things their way, and the desire to be respected are much more
important than money.



THE B (BUSINESS OWNER)
Unlike the perfectionist S, the B type loves to delegate work. The
motto of a B is, Why do it myself when I can hire someone better to
do it for me? The true B can leave his or her business for over a year
and return to find it more profitable than before. That's not usually the
case with someone in the S quadrant. When an S leaves his or her
business for over a year, chances are there is no business to return to.
Being a successful B requires technical business skills. B's motto is
O-P~M (other people's money) and O-P-T (other people's time). Bs
understand the concept of leverage. To succeed, Bs need to know
more than just how to build superior products or services-they need
to know how to build the solid network of business systems without
which their offering won't sell. And they have to be skilled in the art of
leadership. Successful Bs bring out the best in their people so that
their people will carefully tend the network of business systems.


"Many people havegreat ideas but very few havefortunes.
TO bea successful B. you have to do more than just havea
great idea-you have to understand business systems.



1 types use money
to make money.
They don't have to
work because their
money is working
for them."


THE I (INVESTOR)
Regardless of which quadrant people make their money in, if they
hope someday to be truly wealthy they must ultimately move in to the
I quadrant, for it is here that money becomes converted to wealth.
What is wealth? Wealth is measured in time, not money. It is the
number of days you can survive without physically working and still
maintain your standard of living. I types don't have to work because
their money is working for them.
The I quadrant is the playground of the rich. That doesn't mean
everyone in the I quadrant meets with financial success. You can be
poor in the I quadrant as well as in the E, the S, and the B-and go
bankrupt in anyone.


TO achieve
financial freedom,
you need to
understand the
difference between
job security,
financial security,
and financial
freedom, "


WHAT DO YOU WANT TO BE
WHEN YOU GROW UP?
When my educated dad advised me to get good grades and find a
secure job, he was recommending that I enter either the E or the S
quadrant. Poor Dad wanted me to become either a high-paid
employee (an E) or a high-paid self-employed professional (an S)
such as a doctor, a lawyer, or an accountant. He was very concerned
about a steady paycheck, benefits, and job security.

My rich but uneducated dad offered very different advice. "Go to
school, graduate, build businesses, and become a successful
investor," he told me. He was recommending that I enter the Band
the I quadrants. "Too many people focus only on the left side of the
CASHFLOW Quadrant-the E/S side," Rich Dad said. He was right.

We're taught this focus from a very young age. Think about how
children respond to the question, "What do you want to be when you
grow up?" Firefighter, ballerina, doctor, teacher-these typical
answers fall squarely on the left side of the quadrant.
If you're like most people, you're in either the E or the S quadrant.
But the simple fact that you've picked up this workbook means you're
contemplating becoming a B or an I. You're getting ready to pull up
your once-stubborn roots-to move beyond job security and toward
financial freedom.



You may be highly educated and experienced. You may be very good
at your job. But chances are you know little about the B and I
quadrants. And chances are, despite your need to feel secure,
insecurity haunts you because you've been trained for nothing more
than the job you're performing.
How can you become more financially secure? First, by becoming
educated in the B or the I quadrant-that is, by achieving financial
literacy. If you have confidence in your knowledge of both sides of
the CASHFLOW Quadrant, you'll feel more secure even if you have
little money. That's because knowledge is power. Once you have
knowledge, you can lay in wait for opportunity and seize it when it
goes by.


Being good in more than one quadrant is much better than being
good in just one. I have a friend who is a great example of this. He's
a firefighter working for the city government. For his E-quadrant job
he receives steady pay and excellent benefits. But he only fights fires
two days out of the week. Three other days a week he's an investor.
He buys old houses, fixes them up, and collects rent. His total
monthly income from these investments is more than $13,000, or
about $150,000 a year and growing. Because of his adventures
in the I quadrant he's amassed enough money to retire on now,
but he enjoys his firefighting work and would prefer to retire
later with full benefits. My friend has achieved financial security
because he learned how to be successful on both sides of the
CASHFLOW Quadrant.


If you've taken the path to financial security, you've come a long
way-but you can probably do better still. This path is littered with
people who haven't fulfilled their financial goals as successfully as
my flreflghtlng friend. Consider the example of E types who try to
gain financial security by entering the B quadrant. Many of these
folks And up with S-tYPA rather than B-typp. businesses. They wind up
working for themselves, putting just as many hours into work as they
did back in the E quadrant. The result? Like gerbils on their wheels,
they're running and running but getting nowhere, stalled in their quest
to move to the right side of the CASHFLOW Quadrant.


THE PATH TO FINANCIAL FREEDOM
The path Rich Dad recommended for me was the path to financial
freedom. Why? Because in the B quadrant, people would be working
for me. and in the I quadrant, my money would be working for me.
The person who has knowledge in these two quadrants achieves
what most people throughout history have yearned for: freedom from
work. Here's what the path looks like:




Many of the super rich follow this path E-B-I or S-B-I
people of legendary status
such as Bill Gates, Rupert Murdoch, and Ross Perot. Can you? Yes,
if you're sufficiently equipped with knowledge, experience, and
determination. A word of caution, however: The B quadrant is very
different from the I quadrant. Many successful Bs sell their
businesses for millions and then let their newfound wealth go to their
heads. Convinced that their dollars are a measure of their financial
las, they go swaggering into the I quadrant and then lose everything.



Fear: I have friends who've made lots of money and
then lost it all investing. Why should I follow
this path?


Fact: You don't have to follow this path. People who
swagger into the I quadrant flush with cash and
lose it are putting their egos ahead of their
financial intelligence. Knowledge, experience,
and a healthy dose of caution can prevent this
sort of mishap,


Freedom: Reining in your ego will help keep you from
veering off the path to financial freedom




I've said it before and I'll say it again: You can go bankrupt in
the I quadrant just as easily as in the E. the S, or the B-and
more quickly.
Why, you might ask, should you enter the B quadrant before the I
quadrant? You'd rather be an investor than a business owner, right?

Here's my answer: If you have plenty of money, financial intelligence,
and free time, then by all means go straight to the I quadrant. But if
you don't, the path I recommend is safer. There are two good
reasons to enter the B quadrant first:

• Succeed as a B and you have a greater chance of developing
into a powerful I. After all, investors invest in businesses, Once
you gain experience in the B quadrant, you're better positioned
in the I quadrant to identify businesses that would make good
investment opportunities.

• If you have a business that's up and running on its ownthat
doesn't require your babysitting-then you'll enter the I
quadrant with two prerequisites: the free time to hunt for good
opportunities, and the cash flow to support the ups and downs
of investing.


"On the right side
ofthe quadrant,
you gain time
and therefore
freedom-to
make money, to
give it away, and
to be with your
loved ones. "


THE PATH TO FREEDOM IS OPEN TO YOU

My highly educated dad worked hard, but on the left side of the
CASHFLOW Quadrant. By working hard he got promoted and gained
more responsibility, but as he climbed the ladder he had less and
less time to spend with his children. He left for work at seven in the
morning, and we were often in bed before he came home. On the left
side of the quadrant, increasing success brings you less and
less time.

Rich Dad worked hard on the right side of the CASHFLOW
Quadrant. He climbed his own ladder, and the higher he Climbed, the
more time he had for his family. When his business reaped profits, he
expanded the business and simply hired more people to do the work.
If his investments did well, he reinvested the money and made more
money. I've mentioned that Rich Dad was generous with his money

He was also generous with his free time. He spent hour after hour
with his son and me explaining exactly what he was doing in
business and investing.

This is a major difference between the left side and the right side of
the CASHFLOW Quadrant: The right side gives you time. And time
is freedom-freedom to make more money, to give it away, and to be
with your loved ones. The path to freedom is open to you. You can
be a worker bee, buzzing around till the end of your days, barely
noticing those around you, or you can be a free spirit, with plenty
of time to seize the day and tend to your family. Freedom is yours
for the taking.




One thing is certain: When you do set out to work for yourself, you'll
need more than just friends and family-you'll need a team of
professional advisors. One secret of the rich is their humility. They
surround themselves with people who know more than they do. They
surround themselves with experts_ Depending on the nature of the
business you build or the investments you make, your team could
include a mortgage banker, an intellectual property lawyer, a
corporate lawyer, an accountant, an insurance agent, a tax strategist,
a stockbroker, or a score of others. Bear in mind that the team
list will constantly change along with the strategies and plans for
your business.


This is a major difference between the left side and the right side of
the CASHFLOW Quadrant: The right side gives you time. And time
is freedom-freedom to make more money, to give it away, and to be
with your loved ones. The path to freedom is open to you. You can
be a worker bee, buzzing around till the end of your days, barely
noticing those around you, or you can be a free spirit, with plenty
of time to seize the day and tend to your family. Freedom is yours
for the taking.


There is gold everywhere.
Most people aren't
trained to see it."


A goal is different
from a wish. IOU
may wish to be
rich, but that
doesn't mean you've
ever taken any
practical steps to
make this wish
come true.


By now you're getting the gist of Rich Dad's thinking and
no doubt you're anxious to get started. Getting
started requires two actions. First, you have to decide
what your general financial goal is. Do you want to
be secure? Comfortable? Or rich? The answer to this question is
important because it will determine which quadrant you stay in or
enter, and how you go about making money inside that quadrant.
Second, you have to become financially literate so that you learn
to think like the rich.


What is your financial goal? To be secure, comfortable, or rich? Bear
in mind that a goal is different from a wish. You may wish to be rich,
but that doesn't mean you've ever taken any practical steps to make
it come true. If you've ever earned enough money to put some aside,
like most people, you've probably invested it with an eye toward
security, since you can't imagine yourself ever getting rich.

Be honest with yourself. If you had to list the three choices in order
of priority-as goals rather than just wishes-you'd probably put
security at the top of the list, comfort in the middle, and wealth
at the bottom. Like most people, you probably want, if you don't
already have, a job with a steady paycheck and with good health
and retirement benefits. Next you'd like a house, a car, and enough
money for extras like vacations. Then, of course, YOU'd like to be
rich, but that's only something that will happen if you "get lucky." Or
so you think.

"Most people dream of becoming rich, but it isn't their first choice,"
Rich Dad said. That's because the effort and uncertainty of becoming
rich disturb them, and they seek refuge in the easier goals of security
or comfort. People who make security and comfort their first and
second choices are often seeking a single hot investment tip, a
simple, risk-free way of getting rich quick. Some people do get rich
on one lucky investment, but all too frequently the money they amass
is later lost.


EXAMINE YOUR LONG..TERM GOALS
If you're really serious about achieving financial freedom-about
moving from the left to the right side of the CASHFLOW Quadrant
and staying there-it's time to examine closely how you order your
long-term goals. Knowing what you value most will save you many
agonizing decisions and sleepless nights later. A good way of getting
started is to write down what you perceive as the pros and cons for
each possible goal:

Financial goal 		Pros 	Cons

Secure

Comfortable

Rich




Depending on how the pros weigh against the cons, you may
actually find yourself re-ordering your goals. This can be a priceless
exercise, for it suggests possibilities that you might not have
previously imagined.



"Nothing is more tragic than to see people who have sold themselves
short on what's possible for their lives," Rich Dad taught me. They try
to live frugally, scrimping and saving, and they think they're being
financially smart. In truth, they're limiting themselves. Most people
spend their lives imprisoned by financial ignorance. It shows up in
their faces and in their attitudes as they get older. They begin to look
like wild lions trapped in their cages, pacing back and forth while they
mull over what happened to the life they once knew.


DRAFT FINANCIAL PLANS
FOR EACH GOAL

How can you escape this fate? Start by drafting a series of
personalized financial plans-one for security, another for comfort,
and a third for rich. Carefully written plans will give you a clearer
idea of the possibilities ahead. You might be motivated to move
beyond mere security and on to comfort, which would expand your
horizons, or even on to becoming rich, which would give you
unlimited horizons.

At this early stage of the Rich Dad program, of course, you may not
be financially literate enough to draw up detailed plans. That's okay.
The purpose of this exercise isn't to map out your route to financial
freedom-you'll be doing that in Section 3-but rather to get a
general idea of possibilities that you might not otherwise entertain. If
you have a financial advisor, he or she can help you with a rough
outline for your plans. Here's what you do:

• Write up a plan for lifetime financial security. What does security
mean to you personally? The absence of sleepless nights? Being in
a better mood more of the time? And what do you need to do to
achieve your vision of security? If you've decided your first priority
is to be rich, this step might seem mechanical or boring. When you
plan for security, you're planning for a world of not enough. One of
the points of this step is to motivate you to reach beyond a goal that
will only curb your potential.

• Next, write UP a financial plan for lifetime comfort. What does
comfort mean to you? A big house and two cars? A house, a
vacation cottage, and three cars? How can you go about achieving
your level of comfort? Obviously, this plan will be a little more
aggressive than the first one. And it will be less boring because
when you plan for a world of enough, there are more choices open
to you. Your challenge will be to choose.

• Finally, write up a financial plan for becoming rich. This will be your
most aggressive plan and your most exciting, for now you're
anticipating a world of more than enough. You'll be faced with a
myriad of choices, for although you may not be aware of it yet,
opportunities to make money are all around you. As with the
previous plan, your challenge will be coping with the abundance of
possibilities. You don't want to wander through life like a child in a
candy store, so distracted by choice that you never make one. Think
this plan through carefully and thoroughly.

The point of the exercise is to show you that you have choices, more
than you may have ever imagined-and that you need to make
decisions about those choices. Too many people go from job to job or
business to business without getting where they want to be
financially. They wander through life without a plan, and all the while
their most precious asset,time, is dwindling away. This doesn't have
to happen to you.


ILEARN TO THINK LIKE
THE RICH
Acquiring wealth is rarely easy. It certainly wasn't easy for me,
or for the many hundreds of rich people I've met in my career as
a business owner, investor, and teacher. One thing that is easy,
however, is learning to think like the rich so that you can identify
great financial opportunities.


Fear:	I can't set a goal to get rich. People only get rich
through luck.

Fact:	Getting rich is more a matter of determination
than of luck. Great financial opportunities
lie all around you. If you learn to seize those
opportunities, you're more likely to amass money
than if you play the lottery.

Freedom:	By making a plan to get rich, you're taking the
first real step in that direction.


You may believe that money is the root of all evil. You've probably
been taught to work for money rather than to have money work for
you-and not to worry about your financial future because some
company or the government will take care of you when your working
days are over.
If your plan is to be rich, then it's time to wean yourself from such
risky thinking. What follows are nine points that I learned through the
years that can help you get started. As you proceed through this
work/study program, you'll start thinking like the rich and no doubt
develop ideas of your own.



POINT 1: IDENTIFY THE DEEP-SEATED REASONS YOU
WANT TO BE RICH
Most people say yes when asked if they would like to be rich or
financially free. But then reality sets in. The Yellow Brick Road seems
too long, with too many dangers along the way. It's easier to work for
money and then just hand the excess to a broker, they think.
To stay on the road to riches, you must have some deep-seated
reasons compelling you forward. When people ask me why I wanted
to be rich, I recite the list of deep "wants" and "don't wants" that drove
me on. I didn't want to work all my life, for example. I didn't want what
Poor Dad aspired for, which was job security and a house in the
suburbs. I wanted to be free to travel the world and live the lifestyle I
loved. I wanted control over my time and my life.
Can you identify your own reasons for wanting to be rich?



DON'T WANT                              WANT
1										1
2										2
3										3
4										4


Are your reasons deep-seated enough that you'll be able to endure
the risks of the road ahead?




POINT 2: CHOOSE DAILY TO BE RICH
Most people choose not to be rich. For 90 percent of the population,
being rich is too much of a hassle. "I'm not interested in money," they
say, or "I'll never be rich," or "I don't have to worry, I'm still young:'
Indeed, people who think that making money is too much of a
hassle never will make it. They're sealing their own fate by robbing
themselves of their two most precious assets: time, and a mind
open to learning.

Each day you choose what to do with your time, and each day you
choose what information you put in your head. You can watch TV all
day, play golf, read decorating magazines-or take a course on
financial planning. I've talked about the importance of financial
literacy. The issue to ponder here is the amount of time it takes to
become literate. What you do with your time now will shape what you
do with your time when your working days are over. When you retire,
will you be pursuing your interests-or sitting at home fretting over
medical bills that Medicare hasn't covered?


"Who you spend
your time with is
your future.



POINT 3: SELECT YOUR FRIENDS CAREFULLY
The power of association is strong, so select your friends carefully.
I'm not suggesting that you select them for their financial statements.
I have friends who've taken the vow of poverty as well as friends who
earn millions every year. I learn from them all. What I'm saying is that
you don't want to spend too much time around financially frightened
people-the Chicken Littles of the world. They'll always tell you the
sky's going to fall. If you really want to be rich, cultivate friendships
With successful people, ones who seek out and talk about
opportunity. These are the people who will become your mentors and
who will help you meet your financial goals.


POINT 4: FIND FINANCIAL HEROES TO EMULATE
When it comes to investing, too many people make it sound hard.
Instead of listening to the naysayers, find heroes who make it look
easy and listen to their stories.
Emulating heroes is learning at its best. When I was a kid playing
baseball, I was full of admiration for Willie Mays, Hank Aaron, and
Yogi Berra. They were my heroes and I learned everything I could
about them, their stats and their style of playing, which improved my
own game even if it didn't catapult me to the major leagues. And over
the years I developed new heroes. Today I learn everything I can
about people like Donald Trump, Warren Buffett, Peter Lynch, George
Soros, and Jim Rogers. I know their "stats" through and through, that
is, their successes and their style of investing. For example, I follow
what Warren Buffett invests in and read about his point of view on
the market, and I follow Donald Trump's business deals, trying to
discover how he negotiates and puts them together.


When I first started negotiating real estate deals, I subconsciously
acted with the bravado of Trump.When I was analyzing a trend in the
stock market, I would recall Beating the Street by Peter tyncn and look
at the trend as if through his eyes. If you find heroes to emulate, you'll
tap into a tremendous reservoir of power that will help give you strength.

Look over your life so far. Think of the activities and subjects that
have most inspired you. Were there any personal heroes who
sparked these interests and kept them alive? What lessons did you
learn from them?
If you're as committed to financial freedom now as you were to your
passions of the past, then seek heroes who will help light the way.


PERSONAL HERO               LESSONS LEARNED




POINT 5: PAY YOUR ADVISORS WELL
People are often eager to tell me they're using discount brokers for
all their investments. 1 don't understand that. Why would people want
to put their investments into the hands of anyone but the best?
Rich Dad believed in paying professionals well. That's because the
services of top-notch professionals made him money. Sure,
professionals will charge you for their services. But if they're smart
and competent, the more money they make, the more money
you'll make.
When you're considering advisors to accompany you on your journey
toward financial freedom, be they brokers, real estate agents,
lawyers, tax planners, or others, choose people who have experience
and your best interests at heart. They may wind up being your best
assets. When you meet difficulties in implementing your plan, they'll
be there to protect and assist you.


In today's fast changing
world,
its not so much
what you learn
that counts, but
how fast you
learn it.



POINT 6: MASTER ONE FORMULA AND THEN GO
ON TO THE NEXT

To make bread, the baker follows a recipe. The same is true for
making money.

As I've said, most people follow one basic formula for making money:
Get a job and a steady paycheck. As you've probably guessed by
now, however, there are other, much more lucrative formulas out
there, if you're willing to make the effort to find and study them.

When I was in my twenties, I took a weekend class on how to buy
real estate foreclosures. I learned a formula, which was the easy
part. The hard part, of course, was having the discipline to study the
formula and implement what I'd learned. It helped to recite my deep seated
reasons for wanting to get rich. They became the mantra that
kept me focused, and over the next three years I spent my spare
time mastering the formula for buying foreclosures. Then I put what
I'd learned into practice. It earned me several million dollars.

Today, I've gone on to master other formulas. Each one I've applied
has reaped a profit. In today's fast-changing world, it's not so much
what you learn that counts, but how fast you learn it.


POINT 7: PAY YOURSELF FIRST

To get rich you must take control of your finances, and that requires
discipline. What's the sense of making money and investing it only to
lose it? By discipline, I mean you have to learn how to pay yourself
first-even before you pay your bills. Why? Because when you pay
everyone else first, there is often nothing left for you.

I'm not saying you should pay yourself first so you can run out and
spend your money on "ego" toys like a new car, a new outfit, or a
cruise. Paying yourself first means using the money for investments
in the B or I quadrant. Don't you want your money to start earning
you more money? Then go ahead: Pay yourself first, invest the
money, and let your creditors' yelling spur you to find new ways to
expand your income.

Don't get me wrong. I'm not suggesting that you avoid paying your
bills. You should just know that it's not financially intelligent to cave in
to creditor pressure and dip into your investments in order to pay
them. How can you pay yourself first without getting into a credit rut?
First, keep your personal expenses low. Don't buy yourself toys until
the habit of paying yourself first has built up enough assets for you to
afford them. Second, when you come up short, don't dip into your
investments to payoff your creditors. Look at the pressure they're
applying as a source of inspiration; it will force your financial genius
to come up with new ways of making money. When your genius pulls
through, then pay your bills. As you start to build assets, you'll see
that the income from your assets will allow you to pay for your
personal expenses and you will have expanded your means so you
can live the lifestyle you desire.


Fear I can't pay myself first-that would ruin my credit

Fact If you're disciplined, you can pay yourself first
without ruining your credit.The trick is to keep
your personal expenses low. If you're under
pressure from creditors, the pressure will
actually inspire you to come up with new ways of
making money.

Freedom Start paying yourself first today, and you'll get
into a lifelong habit of building assets


POINT 8: GET SOMETHING FOR FREE

When you make an investment, you should first ask how long your
money will be tied up. Second, you should ask what you can expect
in the way of return on investment.

Here's an example of how return on investment can work: Several
years ago I found a small condominium a few blocks from my home
that was in foreclosure. The bank wanted $60,000 for it. I submitted a
bid for $50,000 in cash, which the bank quickly accepted. Most
investors would say, weren't you tying up a lot of cash? Wouldn't you
have been better off getting a loan? Not in this case. My investment
company now uses the condominium as a $2,500-a-month vacation
rental during the winter, when the "snowbirds" come to Arizona.

During the off-season, the unit rents for a $1,000 a month. I had my
money back in about three years. Now I own this asset, which pumps
money out for me, month in and month out.
With stock investing, I've also often gotten a good return on
investment. When my broker feels that a company is set to make a
move that will add value to its stock, he'll call and recommend that I
buy a sizable amount of that stock. I'll park my money there for a
week to a month while the stock price rises, then I'll pull the initial
amount out and stop worrying about the fluctuations of the market
because my seed money is back and ready to buy another asset. So
my money goes in and then it comes out, and I own an asset that
was technically free.

On everyone of your investments, whether it's a rental condo, a
stock, or something else, you should end up with something for free.
That's financial intelligence.



"Borrowing is easier in the short term but harder in the
long term. Don't buy luxuries until you've built the assets
to afford them. 


POINT 9: DON'T BUY LUXURIES WITH CREDIT

In our culture of consumer temptation and easy credit, too many
people borrow money rather than create it to buy the luxuries they
desire. Borrowing is easier in the short term but harder in the long
term. If you've fallen into the habit of buying on credit, you're not
alone. But just because so many other people engage in this practice
doesn't mean you should. The earlier you train yourself to be a
master of money, the better.


Before you ever buy luxuries, use what money you have to make
more money. Let's say 100 people were given $10,000 at the start of
the year. Here's my opinion of what those 100 people would do with
their money by the end of the year:

• Eighty would have nothing left. In fact, many would have created
debt by making down payments on luxury items such as sports
cars and home entertainment systems.
• Sixteen would have increased that $10,000 by 5 to 10 percent.
• Four would have increased it to $20,000 or more.

Which group would you be in? If it's either of the first two, then read
on, and don't forget this point: Use the desire to consume not to buy,
but rather to inspire your financial genius to invest. Later, when
you've built enough assets, you can use the income from those
assets to buy the luxuries you crave. In this way, instead of being a
slave to money, you'll be the master of it.



Middle Class
• Job security is key.
• Owning a home is my goal.
• Saving money is the best
I can do.
• The rich are. greedy



Rich
• Building a business is key.
• Owning an apartment building
is my goal.
• Investing money is the best
I can do.
• The rich are generous.


We knew that building a business was not the easy path, but we also
knew that we could do it. We chose to build an education company.
That company eventually generated the funds that allowed us to
invest in real estate. It was the passive income generated from our
real estate that allowed us to become financially free. Today we are
building CASHFLOW Technologies, Inc., with our partner Sharon
Lechter. Funds from the success of CASHFLOW Technologies are
allowing us to invest in more real estate, other businesses, and the
Foundation for Financial Literacy. Giving back should be an
important part of any financial plan to be rich.


"The poor and the middle class turn
cash into trash, or liabilities.
Meanwhile, the upper class buys
things like stocks, real estate, and
businesses, turning cash into assets."


Time is money and you
have to
seize the day.


an economic
system built on fiat
currency is a house
of cards."

A HOUSE OF CARDS

Fiat currency is not an instrument of equity, but an instrument of
debt. Every unit of currency, instead of being backed by gold or
silver as it once was, is now an IOU guaranteed to be paid by the
taxpayers of the issuing country. As long as the public has
confidence in the taxpayers' ability to work and pay for this IOU
called money, everything's fine. But if that confidence SUddenly
disappears, the economy can collapse like a house of cards.

The house of cards has collapsed many times throughout history.
Take the era of the Weimar Republic, when the German mark
became utterly worthless. As one apocryphal story has it, an
elderly woman was pushing a wheelbarrow full of marks to the
store to buy a loaf of bread. When she turned her back, someone
stole the wheelbarrow and left the money behind.

Fiat currency is only as good as the people's confidence in the
government backing it. Today, much of the global economy is
based on debt backed by confidence. As long as everybody
keeps holding hands and no one breaks ranks, everything will be
fine. Wait a minute-fine? Couldn't that be shorthand for Feeling
Insecure, Neurotic, and Emotional?


THE BUSINESS CYCLE
History is an important teacher, and history leaches us that there
have always been, and there will always be, booms and busts in the
economy. Essentially, whenever you invest, you're investing in
business. And business goes through a cycle. Inflation (expansion)
and recession (contraction) are the recurring phases of the cycle,
measured by certain economic indicators such as the gross domestic
product and the unemployment rate. If you know where the country
is in the business cycle, whether it's expanding or contracting, you'll
be better able to determine how the businesses you've invested
in are performing.


"Those who work the hardest and are paid the least
suffer the most from the constant erosion of money's value.
Since money has an ever-declining value, a financially
wise person must constantly seek ways to create value and
produce more and more money. "


One way economists keep tabs on inflation is by a measurement
called the gross domestic product (GOP). The GDP is the total value
of all goods and services produced in the United States in a given
period. Whenever prices rise owing to increased costs associated
with production but production itself stays the same, inflation occurs.

Small price increases are considered normal for a borrowing economy.
Employees may receive slight increases in salary to match inflation,
so that purchasing power remains roughly the same and rising prices
aren't all that noticeable. But salaries don't always keep pace with
inflation, and over time, when it takes more money to buy the same
amount, purchasing power is reduced.


The law of supply
and demand, one
of the
fundamental
economic
principles, is really
quite simple.
When demand
exceeds supply,
prices rise, but
when supply
exceeds demand
prices fall.


HOW DOES THE BUSINESS
CYCLE WORK?

The supply of goods and services available and the demand for
those goods and services-known as supply and demand-help
indicate what part of the business cycle the country is in, that is, its
general economic health. Simply put, supply describes the behavior
of sellers, while demand describes the behavior of buyers. Over time
tile economy expands and contracts in accordance with the behavior
of buyers and sellers. You've probably heard of the law of supply and
demand. It's really quite simple: When demand exceeds supply,
prices rise, but when supply exceeds demand, prices fall. This law
shapes the business cycle.

So how does the business cycle work? Let's say more people want
to buy cars than there are cars available. Sellers increase prices,
because demand is greater than supply and some people will pay
more to get what they want. Once prices go up, people-including
those working in automobile factories-will demand higher wages so
they can buy cars. As a result of wage increases, production costs
will rise and so will selling prices. Eventually, when prices are more
than most people can afford, they'll stop buying. At this point, fewer
cars will be needed, and automobile factories will layoff workers.
Since unemployed people buy less of everything, the economy will
slow down or go into recession. Now the manufacturers, desperate to
sell their inventory, will offer cars at reduced prices, sometimes even
at a loss, to get enough cash to meet their expenses. Seeing
reduced prices, people will once more be enticed to buy cars, which
Will stimulate production. Factory workers will be employed again and
will have more money to spend at the local grocery store, toy store,
and movie theater. Those businesses will prosper too. The economy
will enter the expansion part of the cycle.


• The Index ofLeading Economic Indicators. This is the
measurement perhaps most widely watched by economists.
Issued monthly by the Conference Board, a business research
group, the index is basad on ten different economic factors,
among them the jobless rate, the number of new houses under
construction, the M2 money supply, the number of new factory
orders for consumer goods, and the prices of certain stocks.
The index allows economists to assess the current state of the
economy and to predict, for example, when there might be
higher inflation, an upswing in proouctivity, higher unemployment,
or a recession.


• The Gross Domestic Product. As you've learned, this is a total
measure of the goods and services produced in any given period,
usually a year, in the United States. The GOp' measured by
surveying several thousand different goods and services, is a sort

The Consumer Price Index (CPI). Also known as the cost-of-livinq
index, the CPI looks at the economy from your point of view.
Every month the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics records the
prices of 80,000 different goods and services typically used
by Americans. Among the prices tracked are those for housing,
food, clothing, transportation, health care, education, and
recreation. The most widely used indicator of inflation, the CPI
is the basis for calculating increases in such things as Social
Security payments.

"There will always
be market booms
and busts. The
trick, in a bust, is
to buy instead of
sell. Don't panic,
profit!"


FEar: No matter how sound my investments, a
depression will wipe them out.

Fact: If you talk to experienced investors and other
experts, read and listen to financial news, keep
your mind open, and follow the Rich Dad
program, you'll be equipped to make sound
investments even in a down market.

Freedom: Information will free you from the boom-and-bust
cycle and help you profit in a down as well as an
up market.



"It's not the numbers, but what
the numbers are telling you. It's not
the words, but the story the words
are telling you."



"My banker has
never asked me for
my report card.
He's only asked me
for my financial
statement. Your
financial statement
is your report card
for life·




Every household, no matter how large or small, is its
own business. Like a business, a household has
assets, liabilities, income, and expenses. And like a
business, every household has various financial
statements that explain the relationship among them.
Assets and liabilities, income and expenses-you may not be fully
aware of them, but they do indeed exist. The details of your financial
situation are expressed in hard numbers, such as the amount of
money you owe a credit card company or the amount you have in a
savings account. By taking a cold, hard look at the numbers and
learning what they mean, you'll be better positioned in Section 3 to
assess your financial position and identify where changes can be
made. Numbers are like words-learn to read them and you'll grasp
the story. Learn to read and analyze them, and you'll be able to
change the plot to your liking.


GUIDE TO ASSETS AND LIABILITIES,
INCOME AND EXPENSES
Assets, liabilities, income, expenses. Wait a minute, you say. Isn't
income an asset? Aren't expenses liabilities? Why does the
terminology have to be so confusing? In truth, there's a very
practical reason for separating income from assets and expenses
from liabilities. There's also a very practical reason for considering
assets together with liabilities, and income together with expenses.
That reason is cash flow. If you have a clear picture of your
assets/liabilities on the one hand and your income/expenses
on the other, ultimately you'll be able to manage and increase
your cash flow.



ASSETS AND LIABILITIES
An asset puts money in your pocket, whereas a liability takes money
out of it. That seems simple enough. Yet many people have trouble
making the distinction. Poring over their financial statements, they get
tangled up in the numbers and can't tell what is makinq them money
and what isn't.




ASSETS
To repeat, a financial asset is something that puts money, or income,
in your pocket. Assets include:
• Cash
• Bank accounts
• Stocks
• Bonds
• Mutual funds
• Retirement funds
• Debts owed to you
• Net value of businesses you own
• Net value of income-producing real estate you own


As you can see, debts owed to you are assets, known as
receivables. If you sell a piece of property, the amount of money the
buyer owes you is a receivable. Assets also include the net value of
any businesses and real estate you own. The fair market value of a
business or a piece of real estate is the amount of money you could
fairly expect to receive if you sold it. But remember, you must deduct
(and payoff) any money you owe on it, such as a mortgage.

It's important to keep in mind that Rich Dad wouldn't consider your
personal property an asset. Why? Because it doesn't produce
income. Your home, car, furniture, clothes, and collectibles might be
things of financial or even sentimental value, but they are not
financial assets unless and until they are sold for a profit. Some, in
fact, might even be liabilities. Your banker or your accountant would
encourage you to list these as assets in order to give you a stronger
financial statement. Is the value of this personal property really what
you could expect to receive if you had to sell it quickly? Since
personal property produces no income, in this book it is treated as a
doodad, not an asset. The financial statement you'll learn to prepare
is the financial statement of a sophisticated investor



LIABILITIES
A liability takes money out of your pocket. Liabilities include:
• Credit card balances due
• Mortgages
• Car loans
• School loans
• Personal loans
• Taxes


The typical amount you pay on each of these liabilities is considered
your expense related to that liability. The term expense here refers to
the total payment, including principal payment and related interest.
Expense is calculated as it relates to total cash flow, not technical
accounting principals.

As mentioned, Rich Dad would treat your home as a liability, the
financially prudent approach. A lot of money goes toward the
maintenance of your home in the form of mortgage and insurance
payments, property taxes, utility bills, and checks paid to plumbers
and other contractors. These are all expenses related to your home.
It's misleading to think of your home an asset, for who would own it if
you stopped making mortgage payments? Many people purchase
homes with the expectation that they'll increase in value, but there is
no guarantee of this, and some homes actually decrease in value.
Only when a home is sold for a profit can it be considered an asset.


"The reason most
people suffer
financially is
because they
purchase liabilities
but list them
under the asset
coIumn. "


"Every time you owe someone money, you become an
employee of their money. if you take out a thirty-year
loan, you've become a thirty-year employee. "


Debt is a liability because it is money owed to someone else. Credit
card debt is a classic example of a liability. When you use a credit
card, you're taking a loan from the bank or company that lssuad that
card. With that loan come interest payments. 

You generally do not pay interest for the first credit card cycle (usually a month), but any
amount not completely paid off after that first cycle is subject to
interest. If you carry a balance on your credit card, then all future
charges are also subject to interest; there is no more first-cycle grace
period. Furthermore. many credit card companies charge an annual
fee for use of the card. Credit cards easily seduce the unwary into
debt. Because no money exchanges hands, it may seem as if
something is being purchased for nothing.

But debt isn't always a negative thing. There is bad debt and there is
good debt. Bad debt is money borrowed to purchase doodads such
as clothes, cars, or electronic equipment. You cannot expect to get a
financial return from something purchased with bad debt. Good debt
is debt that allows you to purchase assets. An example is money
borrowed to purchase rental real estate. The tenant's payments are
used to payoff the loan and generate cash flow. It can be financially
smart to carry good debt; it is never financially smart to carry bad debt.




INCOME AND EXPENSES
Understanding the dynamics of income and expenses is critical to
cash flow management. People who cannot control their cash flow
work for others; people who can control their cash flow work for
themselves or have others work for them.

INCOME
Income is money that goes into your pocket. Income sources are:
- Wages or salary
<Tips
- Interest on investments
• Dividends
• Rent from real estate
• Distributions from businesses/limited partnerships
• Royalties
• Capital gains

There are three basic types of income: earned, passive, and portfolio.
Earned income, which is taxed at a higher rate than other forms of
income, is the salary or wage you are paid by an employer for doing
a job. Earned income also includes tips and self-employment wages.
This is the form of income that keeps many people on the left side of
the CASHFLOW QUadrant. A young person who heeds advice to "get
a good job" may end up stuck in the E quadrant.


The least-taxed form of income is passive income. Passive income is
money generated by a business or real estate property. Business or
real estate owners aren't actively involved in generating passive
income; the money they have invested in assets is working for them.
Portfolio income is a type of passive income; it is income derived
from a collection of paper assets such as dividends, stocks, bonds,
mutual funds, or royalties from patents and license agreements.
Portfolio income also includes interest earned from a savings
account, an outstanding loan, or some other source.


You want to Learn
how to convert
earned income into
passive orportfolio
income.

The difference between earned income and passive or portfolio
income is this: If you have to show up for a job you have earned
income; if you CAn slt back and let your assets work for you, you have
passive or portfolio income.



EXPENSES
An expense is the opposite of income; it is money leaving your
pocket. In Rich Dad's program your expenses are all your payments,
that is, your total cash outflow, each month. An accountant would
include only the interest portion of your mortgage payment as an
expense, not the principal portion. This program, however, is more
concerned about your total cash flow, Later you will account for total
cash in and total cash out.

In Rich Dad's program, then, expenses include:
• Taxes
• Credit card payments
• Home mortgage payments
• Car loan payments
• Utility payments
• Grocery bills
• Travel and entertainment
• All other personal expenses

Income pays expenses, and jf you don't have enough income you
may have to incur additional debt to pay your expenses.


A doodad is an unnecessary and sometimes unexpected expense or
item you purchase that does not put money in your pocket. It may be
a pleasure boat, a dream vacation, a new pair of sunglasses, or a
meal you ate in a restaurant when a snowstorm kept you from going
home. Doodads can slowly and inexorably deplete your income-or
serve as incentives to make more. For example, if you're determined
to take a dream vacation but equally determined not to put it on your
credit card, you may figure out a way to purchase a new asset that
will generate the cash flow to pay for your holiday. After you pay for
your vacation, you will still have the additional cash flow generated by
the asset. People in the B quadrant quickly learn the value of buying
assets because it earns them the ability to pay for doodads. Certain
personal expenses that relate to your business can become business
expenses and thus tax deductions. For instance, if you subscribe to
an Internet service and you use that service to communicate with
clients, you can deduct that expense. Unlike personal expenses,
business expenses are paid with pre-tax dollars. Of course, the
expense must have a valid business purpose.



"People who are
not aware ofthe
power ofa
financial statement
often htwe the least
money and the
biggest financial
problems. "


THE BALANCE SHEET
The balance sheet is sett-explanatory: It balances the value of your
assets against the value of your liabilities. One half of the balance
sheet lists assets, the other half liabilities and your net worth:


The balance sheet indicates how much money you have and how
much money you owe, and the difference between the two at a
point in time.
From the balance sheet you can determine your personal equity or
net worth, which is the difference between the value of your total
assets and your total liabilities:

net worth =assets - liabilities

In other words, your net worth is how many assets you have left over
after paying off all your liabilities (bills and loans), or the shortfall
thereof. It is how much you are worth on the day the balance sheet is
drawn up. In the example of the fictional Max described later in this
section, as well as in the examples given later in Section 3, Rich
Dad's version of net worth is calculated along with a banker's version
of net worth. The difference between the two is the value of a
person's doodads.


«Most people fail
to realize that in
life, it's not how
much money you
make, but how
much money you
keep. "

THE INCOME STATEMENT
The income statement, also called a profit and loss statement,
measures income and expenses. One section of the statement lists
all income-either earned, passive, or portfolio-while the other
section lists all expenses.

Unlike the balance sheet, which is a snapshot of net worth at a
particular point in time, HIe income statement catalogs income and
expenses over a period of time. Preparing an income statement on a
regular basis. such as every few months, is a good way to measure
financial progress.

Income statements and balance sheets have a symbiotic relationship.
For example, the income statement helps in determining whether a
balance sheet entry should be listed as an asset or a doodad.

The income statement starts with gross income and ends with net
income. Gross income is money earned through a job or from a
business or investment. Net income, for our purposes, is that portion
of gross income pocketed after all expenses have been deducted
from it.

net income =gross income - expenses



CASH FLOW

Cash flow refers to the stream of cash coming in as income and
going out as expenses. Cash flow links balance sheets and income
statements, for better or worse. How cash is flowing determines a
person's degree of financial freedom


The cash flow of an asset travels from the assets column of the
balance sheet to the income section of the income statement:


The cash flow of a liability goes from the liability column of the
balance sheet to the expense section of the income statement, and
then out.



"Rich people
acquire assets.
Middle class people
acquire liabilities
that they think are
assets. "



"If something is a
liability, make sure
you call it a
liability and watch
it closely.

pg 113
When preparing a balance sheet, if you have trouble determining
whether something is an asset or a liability, it's helpful to sketch the
cash flow for that item using these diagrams as models.



114
The typical cash flow pattern of a poor person can be simplified as
follows:
Income Job Paycheck ->

Expense	
	Taxes
	Food
	Rent
	Clothes
	Fun
	Transportation

All income is used to pay expenses; he or she owns no assets.



115
The basic cash flow pattern of a middle class person is:
Income Job -> Liability -> Expense



In this case, income is used to pay expenses instead of buying
assets. The middle class person often buys liabilities he or she thinks
are assets, such as a new car or a bigger house, and therefore the
total amount of debt keeps increasing.

The simplified cash flow pattern of a rich person moves in the
opposite direction:

Asset -> Income


It's true that the rich have expenses, but their income covers their
expenses and they continue buying more assets, which generate
more and more income. Hence the saying, "The rich get richer and
the poor get poorer."


A handy way to envision cash flow is to combine the income
statement and the balance sheet in a single financial statement.
Later on in Section 3 you'll be filling out and analyzmq your own
financial statement. For now, it's enough just to see what a blank
statement looks like.
The financial statement is a critical element of the Rich Dad program,
for it shows you how cash is flowing and therefore determines your
degree of financial freedom. In your youth you got a report card for
school. Your financial statement is your report card for life.



"This is too
difficult for a
mathematician. It
takes a
philosopher. "
Albert Einstein on preparing
his income tax return


For instance, in 1986 Congress passed the Tax Reform Act, which
eliminated the tax break for real estate investors whose expenses on
rental properties exceeded the rents they collected. When the law
changed and the governmenl slopped subsidizing people for losing
money, some people went bankrupt and the stock market took a
steep dive. It's never a good idea to invest in something just to avoid
paying taxes or in something that's losing money.The idea is to make
money, not lose it. The 1997 Taxpayer Relief Act introduced a whole
new set of rules, and it contained some good news for some. For
example, now if you're married and you sell your house, you can
avoid paying capital gains tax on profits up to $500,000. The law is
always changing, and the best way to reduce your tax burden is to
keep abreast of developments. How? By watching the financial news
on television, reading the financial section of your newspaper, or
consulting your tax attorney or accountant.


"you can't beat the
IRS. Concentrate
instead on earning
as much as you
can, knowing that
you can reduce,
but not eliminate,
your tax burden. "


Most people earn money, pay taxes through withholding, and spend
what little is left over. The rich do it differently. They earn money,
spend it, and then pay taxes. The government gets less that way, and
it's legal.



What is the secret of the rich? They take advantage of the tax
loopholes that allow individuals to choose different entities for their
businesses. Loopholes, though they may have a negative connotation
for some, me intended to help businesses grow and prosper. The tax
law allows a corporation, for example, to earn, spend everything it
can on legitimate business expenses, and then be taxed only on
what remains. How can you get in on this secret? First by learning
what business entities are available to you and what the advantages
and disadvantages are of each. These entities include the sale
proprietorship, the partnership, the corporation, and the limited liability
company, which is a hybrid partnership/corporation

In the Rich Dad program, it is important that you be aware of the
various entity choices and their primary attributes. Consult your legal
and tax advisors about what entity may be most appropriate for you
and your intended business, whether it is real estate, a purchased
business, or a start-up.



«its' a game. we:
(tax lawyers) teach
the rich how to
play it so they can
stay rich-and the
IRS keeps
changing the rules
so we can keep
getting rich
teaching them. "



SOLE PROPRIETORSHIP
This is the oldest and simplest form of business. The owner and the
business are one and the same, enjoying all the benefits but
assuming all the debts and tax responsibilities. Only one person is
required to form a sole proprietorship, and since there is legally no
difference between the owner and the business, all income
generated by the business is regarded as personal income. The
owner reports all business income and losses on a personal tax
return (Schedule C) and is allowed to deduct business expenses. The
owner is also personally liable for the business and can be sued by
an unhappy customer or unpaid creditor. If business assets cannot
satisfy such a claim, the owner's house, car, and other personal
assets are vulnerable.



Sole Proprietorship
Pros
• Owner in complete control
• Flexible decision making
• Business expenses deductible
• Owner earns all profits
• Easy and inexpensive to set up
Cons
• Owner completely liable for
debts and suits
• Business terminates with
owner's death
• Tax rate may be higher than
other entities




CORPORATION

Most people think of a corporation as a business in a big building
with lots of employees. A corporation is really nothing more than a
way of doing business. It is a legal entity regarded as separate from
the owner, one that offers distinct tax advantages as well as liability
protection from creditors and others who might sue. The owner
controls the corporation and is a shareholder, possibly the only
shareholder. As owner and shareholder, the owner is the boss.

The owner controls what happens in the corporation, but because
the corporation is a separate entity, the owner doesn't own any of the
corporation's assets and therefore doesn't have to assume any of the
corporation's debts. The corporation owns its own assets and pays its
own debts. This is one of the secrets of the rich: Own nothing, but
control everything. This was Rich Dad's favorite form of entity in
which to build businesses.

There are two types of corporations: C and S. The C corporation,
named for Subchapter C of the federal tax code, is also known as a
regular corporation. It offers all the legal protection just mentioned but
is taxed as a separate entity. In general, income tax rates for a
corporation are lower than rates for individuals. After the C
corporation deducts business expenses from its income, tax is paid
on the corporation's profits. The owner/shareholder in turn pays tax on
any money received from the corporation, usually in the form of a
salary or bonus, and the corporation can deduct these payments as
expenses on its tax return. However, when a corporation pays a
dividend to its shareholders, the dividends are taxable to the
shareholders but not deductible by the corporation. This is often called




THE SECRET OF THE RICH

Now that you know something about corporations, you have more
insight into the secret of the rich. This secret has been around ever
since the days of sailing ships, when the rich created the corporation
as a vehicle to limit their risk. The rich would put their money into a
corporation to finance a voyage. If the ship was lost the crew lost
their lives, but the loss to the rich would be limited to the money
they invested for that particular voyage. Corporations can protect
assets and serve as vehicles for the creation of new assets. If you
understand that basic secret, then you're ready to master the art of
building the B-1 triangle.


The
B-I TRIANGLE

Anyone can start a company, yet how many can start a
company that survives and thrives? Anyone can
purchase real estate, yet how many know how to
analyze a property or how to structure the purchase to
take advantage of the tax savings available for real estate? The key
to business success in either business development or real estate
lies in the so-called business-investor triangle, or B-I triangle.


Take away anyone side of a triangle, and what do you have? An
unstable angle. Take away anyone side of the B-1 triangle and what
do you have? A company doomed to failure. There are three sides to
the B-1 triangle: mission, teamwork, and leadership. Each side is
critical to the stability and long-term success of the business.

'just to make
money is not a
strong enough
mission. The
mission of a
business should be
to fill the
customer's need.."

THE MISSION
At the base of the triangle is its most important component: the
mission. As the world market becomes ever more glutted with
products and competition becomes increasingly fierce. the
businesses that thrive will be those that use their mission as their
beacon.


What does mission mean? In truth, it is an intangible concept that, in
the hands of a devoted entrepreneur, can take on spiritual overtones.
The best way to define mission is by example. Henry Ford's
mission-one he fulfilled with messianic fervor-was to make the
automobile available to the masses. Hence his mission statement,
"Democratize the automobile." It was Ford's ability to maintain his
focus on this mission that helped fuel his financial success. Or
consider the case of Johnson & Johnson. Back in 1890, the brothers
Johnson invented a first-aid kit for railroad workers who were getting
cut up as they laid tracks across the United States. For over a
century the company has remained true to its original mission, and
today the name Johnson & Johnson remains synonymous with on site
first aid.

In the case of both Ford and Johnson & Johnson, the mission came
first, not the lure of profits. Too many would-be business owners are
driven by the desire for profit alone. Unfortunately, money alone won't
provide the entrepreneur with sufficient stamina to weather the
storms his or her young company will inevitably face. A glaring
example is the owner who becomes an instant millionaire by taking
the company public through an initial public offering (IPO)-then
watches as the company falls apart. The problem with the profit-only
mission is that it doesn't take into account customer need. After all,
without customers there can be no profits. The mission of a business
should be to meet customer need by providing a product or service.
If customers are well satisfied, then profits will follow.


A mission that serves customers first, and serves them well, will:
• Keep the entrepreneurial flame alive
• Serve as a beacon in the early years
• Eventually reap profits
... Keep your business focused



"If the mission is
clear and strong,
the business will
weather the trials
every business goes
through during its
first ten years.
When a business
gets big and it
forgets its mission
... the business
begins to die


THE CUSTOMER AS MISSION

The story of Levi Strauss suggests the importance of defining a
mission with customers-rather than profits-in mind. During the
Gold Rush. Strauss. a 20-year-old Bavarian immigrant, boarded
a ship for San Francisco with hopes of selling dry goods to
prospectors. Included in his stock was a roll of rough canvas for
tents and wagon covers.When Strauss landed on the West
Coast he met a prospector.

"You should be selling pants," said the prospector, dubiously
eyeing the roll of canvas.

''Why pants?" asked the would-be merchant.

"Because pants aren't worth a damn up in the diggins," came
the reply.

So Strauss took the roll of canvas to a tailor and had him sew it
into pants for his new acquaintance, giving birth to levi's.
Because of Strauss's primary commitment to customer
satisfaction, eventually the profits rolled in and today his casual
denim pants are worn the world over.


Your mission may be obvious if you're building a business to provide
a specific product or service. If your business is to own real estate,
you still have a mission. It may be to build assets for your family, or it
may be to provide housing to your tenants. If you stay focused on
your mission and pay attention to your customers' or tenants' needs,
you'll fulfill your mission.


"Business is a
team sport.


THE TEAM
The second side of the B-1 triangle is the team. In school, students
are taught to take tests as individuals, and they bring home individual
report cards. But in business people are measured by their ability to
perform teamwork. If there is no teamwork-if every person is an
island-then the business will fail.

A team is not a group of people with the same skills. Employees and
small-business owners often make less money than they Would like
because they try to do things on their own. When they grow frustrated
with the powers that be, they form a union. A business team, however,
is not like a union. It is a collection of specialists-accountants,
bankers, attorneys, insurance agents and so forth-with differing
skills. In a team, the whole is greater than the sum of its parts. With a
solid team in place the owner or investor gets the broadest education
possible. And that's exactly what an entrepreneur needs, an
expansive view of the world, not a single, specialized skill.


When first starting out, the business owner should dream of having a
team of specialists, not a car or a plane. Sam Walton, founder of the
phenomenally successful chain Wal-Mart, saw this in the early
generation of discount retailers: "Most of these ... guys were very
egotistical people who loved to drive big Cadillacs and fly around in
their jets and vacation on their yachts." Not surprisingly, most of them
went out of business. Go for the team, not the Cadillac. Depending on
your company's cash flow, specialists can be either paid members of
the team or part of an unpaid-but committed-advisory board.
Ideally, of course, the team works only for your business, not a host of
others. With a team in place, you can make informed decisions and
avoid the pitfalls into which many a hapless young company falls.

How can you afford a learn? Consider the CASHFLOW Quadrant of
employee, self-employed or small-business owner, business owner,
and investor:


TEAMWORK REAPS PROFITS
In the old days employees were considered "workers," By the
1980s a shift in attitude-and language-had taken place
in the halls of corporate America. More and more, successful
companies began to treat their people as part of a team. At
McDonald's employees became known as "crew members," at
the Walt Disney Company, they were now "hosts," and at J. C.
Penney, "associates." These companies weren't just paying lip
service to the concept of teamwork-they gave it life, and
corporate profits responded.


Solo player E B Team player
solo player S I Team player

Those in the E and S quadrants tend to be solo players and want to
do things on their own. If they do happen to pay for specialist advice,
it may be after much hesitation and out of their own sweat and blood.
Those in the B and I quadrants, however, do not hesitate to hire
professionals because the entire B-1 triangle is paying for their
services. Those in the B and I quadrants have shed the common
notion that building a business is risky. To these team players, it is
riskier not to build a business. If your business is real estate, your
team will include legal and tax advisors as well as a real estate agent
or broker and an insurance agent. You may also want a property
manager on your team.

Of course, specialists are just one of several groups that make up the
larger business team. A successful team-driven business depends on
investors, owners, employees, and specialists.

The investors fund the company. The owners work with the
employees to make the business grow and bring a return on the
original investment. The employees serve as an extension of the
owners and represent the business to customers. And all the while,
the specialists help the owners keep the business moving in the right
direction.



LEADERSHIP
To keep the company focused on the mission, and the company's
different personnel working as a team, you need leadership-the
third and final side of the 8-1 triangle.

A leader's job is to
bring out the best
in people, not to be
the best person.


Though leaders come in all different shapes and sizes, they have
certain intangible qualities in common. A true leader is part

• Visionary
• Cheerleader
• Pit boss
• Listener


As visionary, the leader conceives the mission and keeps all eyes
focused on it. As cheerleader, he or she heralds the successes of the
team as it strives to fulfill the mission. And as pit boss, this person
makes the tough calls regarding issues that distract the team from its
mission. The leader is able to take decisive action while focusing and
inspiring the troops.


True leaders aren't born, they're made. They have the ability to listen,
and by listening, they gain invaluable feedback from the team.
Feedback helps them correct what they're doing wrong and hone
their leadership skills. It stands to reason that leaders are humble-s
they know their advisors have much to teach. And leaders, as any
successful military commander knows, trust their team. The person
who thinks he or she is the smartest person on the team isn't a true
leader; this person has no faith in the others and has never bothered
to develop leadership skills. It is the person willing to listen and learn
who has the makings of a great leader.


To force good
ideas to bubble up
within {your
organization}, you
must listen to
what your
associates are
trying to tell you


David Ogilvy, prescient founder of the advertising agency Ogilvy &
Mather, went to great lengths to avoid holing himself up in an ivory
tower. Knowing the importance of remaining visible, he walked the
halls and visited his people. "A chairman who never wanders about
his agency becomes a hermit, out of touch with his staff." Ogilvy met
with success not because he was a born leader endowed with
exceptional charisma, but because he strove to listen and learn. Not
surprisingly, what motivated him to continue honing his leadership
skills wasn't the thirst for profits but a deep-seated commitment to his
company's mission of unparalleled client service.



INSIDE THE B-1 TRIANGLE
With the right mission, team, and leader, you'll establish a stable
triangle for your business. But there's more to business than just the
framework. Prudent management is the ongoing activity that fulfills
the promise of mission, team, and leader. Think of the B-1 triangle as
having within its framework five management tiers, thus:

Cash Flow
Communications
Systems
Legal
Product


CASH FLOW MANAGEMENT
Cash flow management, the bottommost tier, is also the most
fundamental to business success. Cash flow management means
financial literacy-the ability to read and make sense of financial
statements. Many small-business owners go under because they
can't tell the difference between profit and cash flow. Profit may be
phantom cash flow. Actual cash flow is to a business what blood is to
the human body. Nothing affects a company more dramatically than
not being able to make payroll one Friday.

''All great leaders
are great public
speakers. "


COMMUNICATIONS MANAGEMENT
Communications management is the next tier up. Much
communication is devoted to activities external to the company, such
as raising capital, safes, marketing, customer service, and public
relations. Most entrepreneurs spend too little time improving their
external communication skills. This can be risky, not least because
communication is essential to raising capital, the life of any business.
Internal communication is also important-sharing the company's
successes with the entire team, staying in touch with advisors, and
having regular meetings with employees. Investors, advisors. and
employees can get away with speaking the language of their
specialized areas, but the entrepreneur-leader of the flagship must
speak the language of all.


THE FINE ART OF COMMUNICATION
Almost any successful business has a leader who knows how to
communicate with everyone on the team-investors, advisors,
and employees. What sort of communication will inspire different
team members to unite and fulfill the company's mission?
Detailed policy reports tend not to work, What has proven
effective is the age-old language of the common person: uplifting
anecdotes. homely but inspiring metaphors, and legends about
company heroes. Leaders at Frito-Lay are known to tell service
stories, leaders at Johnson & Johnson, quality stories, and
leaders at 3M, innovation stories.These people speaK tne
language of the common folk, for this is the language that opens
ears and hearts. Through stories, the leader motivates the team
to fulfill the mission.


SYSTEMS MANAGEMENT
Systems management is the third tier up. A business is a web of
interlocking systems. For it to grow, a general director must be in
charge of making sure all systems operate with maximum efficiency,
The director is like a pilot in the cockpit reading gauges from all the
plane's systems; if one gauge indicates a malfunction, emergency
procedures must be implemented to prevent the plane from going
down. The pilot isn't part of the system-he or she is merely
managing it. Most S quadrant businesses are weak because the
director is the system. In a B-quadrant business, the director
supervises multiple systems without becoming a part of any.

Systems managed in a typical B-quadrant business include:
• Product development
• Office operations
• Manufacturing and inventory
• Order processing
• Billing and accounts receivable
• Customer service
• Accounts payable
• Marketing
• Human resources
• General accounting
• General corporate
• Physical space
• Computer systems


LEGAL MANAGEMENT
Legal management, one tier from the top of the triangle, is too often
neglected. Legal fees may seem expensive at first, but it is much
more expensive to lose the rights to your property or to get embroiled
in litigation down the road. The young Armand Hammer well
understood this. He and his father bought out a partner in their
pharmaceutical manufacturing business and renamed it Allied Drug
and Chemical Company. As soon as sales started skyrocketing, the
partner resurfaced, claimed that he'd been swindled, and brought a
million-dollar suit against the Hammers. So Armand went to the
famed commercial trial lawyer Max Steuer. He paid Steuer a
thousand dollars simply to write a letter showing the ex-partner that
he intended to fight. It worked. The man, scared stiff, backed down and
saved the Hammers many thousands of dollars in potential legal
fees later on.

Lots of businesses go under because they fail to protect their
intellectual property. Never underestimate the power of patents,
trademarks, copyrights and contracts. Bill Gates became the richest
man in the world by buying an operating system, protecting his
purchase, and selling it to IBM. Aristotle Onassis became A shipping
magnate with a simple legal document-a contract from a large
manufacturing company guaranteeing him exclusive rights to
transport its cargo all over the world. A single legal document can be
the seed of a worldwide business.


Here are some areas of the law where attorneys can prevent
problems:
• Contracts
• Intellectual property
• General corporate
• Shareholders
• Labor
• Consumers
• Securities and debt


PRODUCT MANAGEMENT

Finally, on the very top tier, rests product management. Product is at
the top because it embodies the business's mission, and because
success in selling product depends on all the tiers below. The product
can be a tangible item like a hamburger or an intangible idea such as
consulting services. Whatever it is, in one sense the product should
be viewed as Ltle least important part of the business. Take away tho
rest of the 8-1 triangle and the product has no value. Most of us can
cook a better hamburger than McDonald's, but few of us can build a
better business system than McDonald's.

After reviewing each level of the B-1 triangle, consider how each also
relates to the business of owning and investing in real estate.
Whether you own a hot dog stand or a multinational business,
whether you own one property or many, all the elements of the 8-1
triangle must be present and working in harmony for your business
endeavor to succeed.
Pillar 4:
The B-1 Triangle


SOLVING THE
8-1 TRIANGLE RIDDLE

The difference between people in the E and S quadrants and people
in the B and I quadrants is that the E and S side tend to be too
hands on. They stay busy in their busyness and never build anything.
You don't have to become imprisoned in busyness.

Once you master the art of building B-1 triangles, you will find that the
less you work, the more money you make. The key lies in putting
together systems that can function without you. You will also discover
that it doesn't take money to make money. If you develop your ideas
and build B-1 triangles around them, investors will come to you. Once
you learn these lessons, you will have solved the B-1 triangle riddle.


"Investing is
a plan, not a product
or procedure."


"Financial
intelligence is the
ability to convert
cash or labor into
assets that provide
cash flow. "


Most people will tell you they have a financial plan. What
they really mean is they have a "retirement package"
with a pension fund, life and health insurance policies,
mutual funds, and the like. The typical plan is nothing
more than a collection of financial products purchased without a clear
idea of the total picture.

Investing requires a true plan. Where are you and where do you want
to go? Do you just want to be secure? Comfortable? Or rich? Are
you set up to retire early, or are you living like a financial yo-yo?
These are the sorts of questions you need to answer in order to
choose your investments wisely.

... RICH DAD'S MILLION-DOLLAR QUESTION
Do you want to be: • Secure? • Comfortable? • Or rich?

It's difficult to build a jigsaw puzzle without seeing the cover of the
box. Likewise, it's difficult to invest wisely without Q fiscal picture in
mind. The most successful investors are the ones who can envision a
picture-and who build rather than buy the pieces.


No two financial plans are alike, for dreams and comfort levels are
different. Some people love camping in the wild, others can't sleep
without a roof over their heads. In general, though, people hopa to
be either secure, comfortable, or rich. The lifestyle you strive for
determines what type of investing you'll pursue. If your plan is to be
rich, you must also have a plan to be secure and comfortable.


Remember,
good debt is debt that someone else pays for you. An example is
buying an apartment building. You borrow the money from a bank,
but your tenants pay the debt service. Bad debt is debt you acquire
with hard-earned, after-tax wages, like a credit card loan for a new
pleasure boat.


One thing investments are not: savings. When you save a dollar, you
keep it safe and liquid; when you invest a dollar, you assume a
certain degree of risk in expectation that the money will grow.
Whether you access savings by cracking open a piggy bank or
making a withdrawal at an ATM machine, you have immediate
access tn cash-s-hut remember, once it's spent, it's gone. Everyone
needs a rainy-day reserve. The rule of thumb is to have enough to
cover three to six months of living expenses in case of emergency.
Keep more than that liquid, however, and your cash could run
through your fingers. That's because savings accounts return such
low interest that taxes and inflation erode the money's purchasing
power.

'An investors most
important tool
is information.
Without good,
solid information,
stock investing
becomes just
guesswork

"It is notpossible
to predict the
market, but it is
important that we
beprepared
for whichever
direction it
decides to go.


INVESTING IN REAL ESTATE

With real estate, investors move to the right side of the CASHFLOW
Quadrant, positioning themselves to realize gains that people stuck
on the left side can only dream of. A real-estate investment is a
building or property other than a family home that generates income
through rent or resale. The price of the investment and the earnings
are driven by supply and demand. Real estate is an investment with
"curb appeal." Investors who want to see more than a print-out of
their holding can drive by the property or building, vacation in it (with
certain limitations), or work from it. Because real estate is tangible,
investing in it requires expertise in a number of areas not pertinent to
paper securities. Real estate also requires ongoing contributions of
time and money. Investors must shop around for the best financing or
refinancing terms, buy liability and property insurance, set up entities
for tax and management purposes, install security systems and
maintain buildings to code, screen and evict tenants, and possibly
hire professional personnel to assume management responsibilities.

As with other securities, often the best time to buy real estate is
when the seller doesn't want it-in other words, when the market is
depressed or a bank is unloading property in foreclosure. Investors
can scout deals themselves, but most rely on the services of a topnotch
realtor or broker. As a building's income-and-expense
statement may not always be accurate, an investor should be able to
evaluate it cautiously, using knowledge of the current market to
determine if the cash flow is realistic.




FUNDING FOR THE REAL ESTATEVENTURE

Once a property is identified and a price negotiated, funding can
be secured through a mortgage broker, a savings and loan
association, a bank, or even the seller. When shopping for a loan,
an investor must carefully assess various long-term interest
rates, up-front interest charges (called points), processing fees,
and the duration of the loan to determine which mix offers the
best deal. In general, lenders require a higher down payment (20
to 25 percent) and charge higher interest rates for investment
property than for owner-occupied homes. Sophisticated investors
find ways around these drawbacks. They assemble partners and
get colleagues to put up the cash, or they find lenders who will
accept less down. Sophisticated investors understand good debt.
Their tenants pay for the debt service of their real estate assets.

"}Our banker
might loan you
money to buy a
piece of rental real
estate, but he won't
lend you money to
buy stock.


Most real estate investors hire professional property managers to
minimize their day-to-day involvement with the enterprise. The best
plan is to start small and carefully review possible real estate
purchases, working with a realtor in the community, lOOking at many
properties, and analyzing each for its cash flow potential. This is the
way to gain intimate knowledge of a community But remember,
unless the would-be landlord ultimately takes action, he or she will
never gain riches through real estate.


Many small business owners believe they have a B business when
what they really have is an S business. What's the difference? The business
owner owns a system, while the S-business owner owns a
job. If an owner can leave a business for a year and come back to a
stronger and more profitable operation, he or she is a
B-business owner.


The advantages of business ownership do not come easily Band 1
quadrant types face great risks and responsibilities. Not only their
money and livelihoods but also other people's are usually at stake.
And starting or owning a business requires a strong mission, a good
team, and leadership. The business owner/investor needs far more
than good ideas; he or she also needs sales, accounting, and team building
skills, for the viability of the enterprise depends more on
leadership and operating systems than on the product or service
being sold. Those who master the art of solving business problems
and creating business systems gain an advantage over investors
who remain outside the enterprise. In the process of bUilding
a money-making business, insiders learn to better analyze the
businesses of others-an important skill when it comes time to make
additional investment decisions.

172


The best network marketing companies offer not only
quality products but also long-term educational programs that
hone leadership, salesmanship and communication skills, helping
gung-ho investors build a strong enough revenue base to
generate passive income.



As Rich Dad said, "Business is a team sport." Consult your
advisors and go over these calculations with them when you are
considering an investment. If you try to analyze them on your own,
you are still operating from the left side of the Quadrant. Your
advisors may know additional information about the company or its
industry. The more you know, and the more advice you receive from
your advisors, the better prepared you will be for making an
investment decision.


"Disability and
death have sent
more than one
business and
financial empire
crashing down.
Insurance buffers
the fall."


Types ofinsurance. Disability and death have sent more than one
business and financial empire crashing down. Here are some types
of insurance that could buffer the fall:

• Health. In this country, medical bills are the leading cause of
personal bankruptcy. No one can anticipate a major illness or
surgery, yet the wise investor plans for it.

• Disability. This replaces wages lost when someone becomes too
disabled to work. Anyone who relies on earned income to meet
expenses should have coverage of at least 60 to 70 percent of
monthly pay. Unlike workman's compensation, disability insurance
cavern a person on and off the job.

• Life. There are three basic forms of life insurance. Term is bought
for a set period, from one to thirty years, and renewed
periodically. It is the most affordable insurance for those starting
out, yet it has no cash value and premiums increase at the end of
each term, so it can get costly. Whole-life insurance charges a
fixed premium for guaranteed lifetime protection and a death
benefit It builds cash value. which the insured can borrow
against, and usually pays dividends, which are used to pay
premiums or buy extra insurance. Variable universal life is part life
insurance, part investment vehicle. Policyholders, rather than
insurance managers, choose the size and frequency of premiums
as well as the mutual funds in which they are invested. With this
control the investor assumes some risk: If premiums are too low
and investments do poorly, the death benefit may be reduced.


Take notes in the margins of
your binder, highlighting pointers that are especially relevant to your
situation. As you did in the last section, go at your own pace. And
most important, don't give up. Whenever fear or doubt blocks your
path, circle around these obstacles and continue on. You'll find that
with every step you take, your confidence grows along with your
assets. Remember, the reward is not only the freedom that money
buys but also the confidence you gain in yourself-for they are really
one and the same.


By now you're probably asking, Where do I begin?
Naturally, you're eager to start putting into practice
what you learned in Section 2. You may also be a little
intimidated. Know this: You're not alone. Anyone who's
ever dared dream of financial freedom and then taken the steps to
achieve it has felt the same way at first Don't lose heart. If the rich
can do it, then with determination and a sound plan, you can too.
To reach your financial goal, the first thing you must do is figure out
where you are. For if you don't know where you are, you can't expect
to get where you want to go. Knowing where you are means taking
an honest inventory of your financial situation-filling out a financial
statement-and taking a good hard look at the results. This may
sound difficult, and maybe even a bit scary, but it's a simple process,
and if you make up your mind to do it, you'll be amazed at what you
can learn about yourself.


To calculate your total earned income, look at the receipts for bills
you've submitted to customers or clients over the past month. Is this
a typical month for your business? If not, it may be better to add up
four months' worth of receipts, then divide by four (or better yet, add
up a whole year's worth and divide by 12). By giving you an average
of your monthly receipts, this will more accurately reflect the income
you record on your financial statement. Log in the monthly average
next to "Job and Self-Employment" on your financial statement.



PORTFOLIO INCOME

Portfolio Income consists of Interest and dividends derived from
investments such as paper securities and royalties from products or
services you create. There is a record keeping sheet on page XXX
[TK]. Use this to make sure you include all your income and accounts
here.

Interest and dividends. Interest and dividends are income you earn
on investments as reported at year's end on IRS form 1099. To
determine your total interest and dividends, look at the statements
you've gathered for all accounts, for example, from brokers, mutual
funds, companies in which you own stock, and banks. Review your
tax returns from the past three years to make sure you've included all
accounts, and maka ~IJm YOlJ add any statements of receivables that
is, money that people owe you. Then for each account, list the
monthly income or average monthly income, whether in the form of
interest or dividends.


"For each liability
you have, such as
a car loan or a,
mortgage, you re
an employee ofthe
institution or
person lending you
the money.



"The reason so
many people
struggle financially
is because every
time they make
more money, they
increase their taxes
and their debt. "



Most people don't
prepare personal
financial
statements-they
just try to balance
their checkbooks.
So congratulate
yourself lou are
now aheadofmost
ofyour peers.


"Financial intelligence isn't measured by
how much money you make, but how much money you
keep, and how hard that money works fOr you."



RECORDKEEPING:
A NECESSARY EVIL

The value of keeping good financial records is that they'll help you
track your cash flow, and you'll know exactly where to find what you
need as you make future financial decisions, whether it's choosing
investments, preparing taxes, or building your own business.
Organizing your records may seem like a lot of boring work, but
remember, it's going to help you reach your destination. A little time
spent now can save you a lot of time and headaches later!

Once you develop the habit of keeping records, you'll see that
tracking personal expenses is pretty simple and one of the smartest
things you can do. By capturing your expenses while they're still fresh
in your mind, you'll be assured of claiming all legitimate tax
deductions, no matter how small. These deductions can add up over
the course of years and save you real money at tax time. Keeping
track as you go will also save you an enormous amount of time and
trouble when you're getting ready to prepare your tax return. And if
you're ever audited by the IRS or your state government, accurate
records are what you'll rely on most to back you up. Most important,
your records will tell you if your assets are creating income for you,
and how much.

One of the tricks of recordkeeping is knowing what to hold on to and
what to throwaway. Not every pay stub, bank statement, or invoice is
going to reveal your financial circumstances or show you the
direction in which you're headed. To get your true financial bearings,
you'll have to collect and examine the right records. It doesn't do you
much good to study a street map of Detroit if you happen to be lost
in Pittsburgh.

There are four broad categories of records you should keep: income,
expenses, tax records, and miscellaneous. Perhaps you're already
saving many of these records now. but you haven't taken the time to
organize them properly.



Knowledge is power, knowledge reduces fear.


Please note that in the Rich Dad program, wealth is measured in
time, not money. (You should have your money working for you so
you don't have to spend all your time working for money.)


It doesn't matter
how much money
you make,
but how your
money flows



Its not the
numbers, but what
the numbers are
telling you. It's not
the words, but the
story the words are
telling you


Note: Once your monthly passive income exceeds your monthly
expenses, you're infinitely wealthy because your assets are working
for you.

WHAT IS YOUR CASH FLOW PATTERN?

The numbers you've come up with tell a story about your cash flow
pattern. Which of the stories below best describes you?
Poor. If you have the cash flow pattern of the poor, you're using
earned income to pay expenses. There are no assets and no
liabilities. You could own lots of things and owe nothing on them. But
if, in addition to having no debt, you have no passive income or
assets, your cash flow pattern is that of the poor.

Middle class. If you have the cash flow pattern of the middle class,
you're bringing in money primarily through earned income, which
goes to paying expenses and building more liabilities, creating more
expenses. If this is your pattern. you're rewarding yourself with
doodads and building liabilities. This is the toughest pattern to
change. Your cash flow is building more and more debt.

Rich. The cash flow pattern of the rich is to build assets that create
passive income, which in turn pays expenses. The term rich here
refers to the cash flow pattern only. What counts isn't whether
someone makes $5,000 per month or $500,000 per month. What
counts is whether that person's assets pay his or her expenses, with
additional cash going each month to build assets. That is the cash
flow pattern of the rich. Someone who makes $50,000 per month
might have the cash flow pattern of the middle class. It is not the
amount you have, but what you do with it that counts.


Fear: I make $5,000 a month and all I have are
liabilities. How can I build assets?

Fact: If you stop rewarding yourself with doodads,
you'll stop amassing liabilities (bad debt).

Freedom: When you stop amassing liabilities (bad debt),
you'll start building assets.


Making more money will not solve your problems if cash flow management is your problem.


The primary reason most people have money problems
is that in school they were never taught cash flow
management. Without this training, they wind up
working harder and harder in the belief that making
more money will solve their problems. Unfortunately, more money
often just sends people deeper into debt More money won't solve
problems if cash flow management is the problem.
As CEO of the business of your life, you've created a personal
financial statement and analyzed it. The next step is to take control of
your cash flow.





The cash flow management plan you develop depends on your level
of personal debt. To get a sense of how deeply dug in you are, look
at the list below. If you can answer yes to any of the questions, put a
"1" in the box alongside:

Do you pay your bills late?
::J Have you hidden a bill from your spouse?
o Have you neglected repairing the car because of
insufficient funds?
o Is there family tension because ot overspending?
o Have you bought something recently that you didn't need and
couldn't afford?
o Do you regularly spend more than your paycheck?
o Have you been turned down for credit?
o Do you buy lottery tickets in the hopes of getting out from under?
o Have you put off saving money for a rainy day?
o Does your total debt (mortgage excluded) exceed your
rainy-day reserve?


Add up the numbers in the boxes. Is your score O? Good for you!
You're in control of your cash flow. Skip this section and proceed to
the next chapter. If you score in the 1 to 5 range, however, you may
need to reduce your debt by following Rich Dad's program. If you
score in the 6 to 10 range, watch out-you may be headed towards
financial disaster. The higher the score, the more urgent it is that you
increase your financial literacy.


A debt-reduction plan will compel you to live within
your means before you try to increase your means.


CONTROL SPENDING
When you find yourself deep in a hole, you need to stop digging. And
that means curbing your spending-avoiding the temptation to buy
doodads like a robot lawn mower, a car that gets ten miles per
gallon, or a second pair of high-end athletic shoes. Admittedly, this
requires willpower. Nowadays frugality is out of favor.To get out of
debt, though, you need to adopt the old-fashioned virtue of
delayed gratification.


By cutting back on doodads, you'll increase the percentage of
income you keep. It's important not to consider this a temporary step.
If you truly want to stay out of debt and enjoy security, comfort, or
riches, you ought to make purchasing assets instead of doodads a
life-long practice.


"When you find
yourself deep in a
hole, you need to
stop digging. "


There are hundreds of ways to trim a budget. For example, you can
practice wiser money management. Here are some ideas to
inspire you:
• Pay bills on time to avoid late fees.
• Use only one credit card until you get control of your spending.
• Payoff your credit card balance each month to avoid finance
charges.
• Find a credit card with a lower interest rate and no annual or
transfer fees, then consolidate your debts so you will pay less in
interest and fees.
• Don't use automated-teller machines (ATMs) that charge a feeyou'll
be paying for your own money

You can also adopt wiser shopping habits:
• Try paying cash; use a charge card only for emergencies.
• If it ain't broke, don't fix it. The avocado-green refrigerator stays!
• Don't go to the mall to browse, and never buy on impulse.
• Switch to less expensive brands of everything from shampoo to
cars. When buying big-ticket items (necessities only, of course).
read magazines like Consumer Reports to make sure you're
getting quality along with a lower price tag.
• Be patient and wait for a sale.
• Shop at wholesale clubs and discount department stores .
• Respect your budget; if you've reached the $200 food limit, skip
the potato chips or the ice cream.
• Buy generic medicines or find a discount pharmacy.
• Consider starting a part-time business, even if you have a fulltime
job, and review your expenses to see if any could be
deductible business expenses.



For many people,
travel and
entertainment are
a doodad
black hole


Then there's travel and entertainment, a doodad black hole for many
people. How can you stop your money from getting sucked away?
• Don't take a vacation until you have the money to pay for it.
• Shop for discount airfares-or drive.
• Pump your own gasoline.
• Cut back on meals out, whether they're eaten at a four-star
restaurant or your local fast food outlet.
• If you're a movie lover, go to a matinee instead of an evening
show, and bypass the concession stand. Better yet, rent a video.
• Resign from the country club. Play on public golf courses, and join
the local YMCA if you want to use exercise equipment or a
swimming pool. Trim your budget further by walking or jogging.



ELIMINATE ALL UNSECURED DEBT
Simply speaking, there are two types of debt: secured debt and
unsecured debt. Secured debt is debt with collateral behind it, such
as your home mortgage or car loan. Unsecured debl is debt witt! no
collateral behind it, for example, personal loans, medical bills, and
the charges on your credit card. Once you've cut expenses. the debt
you should attack first is unsecured debt. While some unsecured
debt is unavoidable-most is unnecessary, the result of unbridled
spending. In the Rich Dad program, there are also two types of debt,
good debt and bad debt. Review your unsecured and secured debts
to see if they are good or bad debts. Rich Dad would consider most
unsecured debt bad debt. Remember, good debt is debt that buys an
asset, so it is usually secured debt.



Late fees, over-limitfees, annualfees-credit cards can
eat a big hole in your pocket. PayinK only the minimum
required on your card will keepyou in debt forever,
makingyou an employee ofthe credit card company.


Credit cards can be wonderful bookkeeping tools, particularly if you
use one credit card for business purposes and another for personal
use. But beware-credit cards are only useful if you payoff the total
balance due each month, thereby eliminating interest charges. One
reason many people get mired in debt is that credit card companies
make it so easy. Every day, it seems, an offer for a new card arrives
in the mail, a current creditor increases your limit, or a store grants
"instant" credit. Credit is a consumer's dream-and soon-to-be
nightmare. What can you do? Simple: Don't get sucked in.



''Every liability
you have
is someone
else's asset. "


Clearly, getting out of debt requires credit savvy. Examine the terms
of your credit card agreement. If you don't like what you see, call the
company And see if it will lower its rate to keep you on board. If not,
start looking for a better card. When you find one with a lower APR,
make sure it isn't a temporary promotional offer. Also make sure
there aren't any transfer fees. You don't want to incur debt to
consolidate debt.


"Think ofevery dollar in your asset column as an
employee who works hard for you so you don't have to
work so hard Once you put a dollar in your asset
column, never take it out.


it's time to review your collateral-backed debt. Don't let the word
collateral fool you. On Rich Dad's balance sheet a good debt is a
collateral-backed debt-a liability, loaned to you for an asset that
generates income. As long as your asset generates positive cash
flow, which means your asset is paying for the related debt, it is good
debt. Consider reducing or eliminating all bad debt, even if it is
secured.



((Take
responsibility for
your actions.
Avoid bankruptcy
by finding ways
to increase
your income,
renegotiate your
debts, and payoff
your debts, even if
it takes years.


One great asset of the rich is that they think differently. People who
think the way everyone else does wind up having what everyone else
has. And what is that? Hard work, heavy taxes, liabilities mistaken for
assets, a lifetime of debt, exhaustion and anxiety. Keeping up with
the Joneses can be lifelong drudgery.

"Know the diffirence between gooddebt and bad debt.
Eliminate the bad, increase thegood, and you'll be well
onyour way tofinancial freedom


People who follow the Rich Dad program don't try to live like the
Joneses; they try to expand their means to buy assets, so that
eventually they'll have income from their assets pay for their
doodads.


Investing is not a get rich quick drama. Investing is a plan, often a dull and almost mechanical
process of getting rich.

Rule 4: Become your own best asset-instead ofyour own liability.
A good investor buys undervalued securities in a bear market or
lucrative real estate in foreclosure. A bad investor locks in losses on
a stock by panicking in a market slump. An educated investor is
emotionally neutral when making investment decisions.


Be prepared for anything; don't try to predict what will
happen or when. Investing is a skill, not a science. The Zen
swordsman disciplines body and mind to counter any blow
spontaneously; he does not anticipate the moves of an opponent, for
that impedes his ability to react. Likewise, professional investors
know they cannot control the real estate or stock market, let alone
the global economy. Instead, they train themselves to be financially
intelligent, to think confidently and creatively when opportunities or
problems arise.


''Investing is less
risky than being
an employee.
Skilled investors
are in control of
their investments;
employees are
under the control
of their
employers.


Remember, without some risk,
there can be little reward.

'1nvesting isn't
risky; not being in
control is risky. »


"The reason most
average investors
lose money is
because it is often
easy to invest in an
asset but difficult
to get out. }Our
exit strategy is
often more
important than
your entry
strategy.


((When I look at the financials of a business, I look at
its guts. J can tell if the business isfundamentally strong
or weak, growing or declining. J can tell ifthe
management is doing a goodjob or wasting a lot ofthe
Investors,money. "




WHAT TO DO WHEN BUYING STOCK
Once you've done your homework and consulted with a financial
planner or broker. it's time to take the plunge. To make informed
decisions, you need to review the list of dos and don'ts:
• Recognize that you aren't in control of the management of stock
investments. You're investing in the management of the companies.
• Maintain meticulous records of all transactions. If you work through
a discount broker, be sure you'll get a year-end tax statement.
• Sell when others are buying, buy when others are selling (but only if
the company is sound). Better yet-unless you're a sophisticated
stock picker-leave your money in for the long term.
• Be careful when buying "best picks"; they may be one-time
performers or overpriced due to popularity.
• Invest in a minimum of five stocks, so jf one does poorly the others
may buffer the loss.


A purely
mechanical, or
quantitative, way
of picking stocks
outperforms 80
percent of the
professional stock
pickers.


WHAT NOT TO DO WHEN BUYING STOCK
• Never invest in a company without reviewing its financial status,
prospectus, and SEC reports.
• Don't give your broker the authority to trade without your approval.
• Don't be afraid to disagree with a broker's strategy or stock ptck, At
the same time, you should think twice before ignoring the advice of
a broker who has always steered you right
• If you're picking stocks yourself, it's not a good idea to invest in too
many. Remember, you're the one who has to track them.
• Don't sell low in a slump only to turn around and buy high. Avoid
transactions through panic; keep your emotions under control.
• It's best not to buy stocks beyond your risk tolerance.
• Unless you have keen investor skills, don't switch back and forth
between stocks, trying to catch the next wave.



BONDS
The average investor often buys bonds as part of an overall plan for
security and comfort. While bonds are generally considered safe
investments, you can still lose money with them. Keep in mind the
seesaw effect of interest rates and value: If interest rates rise, the
value of your bonds goes down, and vice versa. Keep in mind, too,
that over time inflation can cause the value of the fixed-rate interest
payment as well as the principal to erode. The rich often use bonds
as part of their overall investment strategy. In a volatile stock market
they may use bonds to "park" their money until it is time to re-enter
the market (usually when everyone else is exiting).
If after doinq your homework you decide to buy bonds as part of your
comfort/security portfolio, you should review the following tips before
making your first purchase.


WHAT TO DO WHEN BUYING BONDS
• Buy 'f-bills yourself to eliminate commissions. You can do this
through TreasuryDirect, which allows purchases on-line at
www.savingsbonds.gov or by phone at 1-800-943-6864.
• If you want to calculate yield and tax advantages accurately, buy
bonds through a financial planner or broker.
• Buy when interest rates are high or recession looms
• To minimize risk of default, stick to bonds with "AA" ratings or
higher.
• Hold bonds at least a year to benefit from the capital gains tax rate.
• Buy bonds that mature in five years or less to avoid volatility.
When buying revenue-backed municipal bonds, carefully evaluate the
financial viability of the project producing the revenue.



WHAT NOT TO DO WHEN BUYING BONDS
• Don't invest a significant portion of your portfolio in bonds.
Remember, you need growth.
• Don't buy bonds when interest rates are low or unstable.
• Don't get lulled into complacency. Bonds can be downgraded,
defaulted on, or "called" (paid off) before maturity, so your
anticipated income stream could suddenly dry up.
• Avoid speculative, high-yield ("junk") bonds.


Avoid funds with high fees and expenses. Closely examine the fees
and expenses laid out in the prospectus. You want to minimize the
amount you pay over and above your investment. Compare the
operating expenses of any funds you're researching and avoid those
with high figures. Management fees range anywhere from 1 to 5
percent, which over time can significantly reduce capital gains. In
some cases, you may be required to pay a load, or commission.
when you buy or sell shares. You'll recall that a front-end load is a
commission charged at the time of purchase. A back-end load is
charged if you sell your shares before a specific period has elapsed.
A level load is a flat annual fee. In general, you're better off looking
for no-load funds. Don't forget to read the fine print; footnotes may
outline additional fees or expenses.


WHAT NOT TO DO WHEN BUYING MUTUAL FUNDS
• Don't invest in a fund if you haven't reviewed its prospectus and
performance history.
• Don't panic. The worst thing you can do is sell when the market's
dipping, and buy when it's high.
• Don't buy aggressive-growth funds if you're averse to risk.
• Don't switch back and forth between funds, trying to catch the next
wave. By the same token, don't rest on your oars and stick with a
fund that isn't performing or that changes its objectives. Seek the
advice of a financial planner.


//real estate
WHY REAL ESTATE WORKS
The majority of the wealthiest people today own real estate. What do
the rich know about real estate that you don't know? Their secrets are:

• Leverage
• Tax benefits
• Appreciation

LEVERAGE
This is the lesson of leverage: If you've raised $10,000, you could
ouy $10,000 of stock or find a $100,000 investment real estate
property, use the $10,000 as a down payment, and finance the
$90,000. You understand the meaning of leverage if you understand
the difference between creating a $10,000 asset and creating a
$100,000 one.

While the cash invested in either case is the same, $10,000, which is
likely to appreciate more quickly or generate more income, the
$10,000 asset or the $100,000 asset? The benefit of leverage is that
you're able to use other people's money, in this case the bank's
money, to greatly accelerate the growth of your own net worth.

To reap the benefit
of appreciation, you have to follow Rich Dad's advice and make your
money on the buy, not the sell. In other words, buy a property at the
right price. That way if the property does go down in value in the
short term, it doesn't matter. You aren't counting on the sale of the
property to make money.


TAX BENEFITS
There are many benefits for the real estate investor under current tax
laws. For example, a married couple can sell their personal residence
in which they have lived for two of the previous five years for a gain
and not pay tax on $500,000 of that gain. This is a tremendous gift
that Congress has given to homeowners.

But that's not the only benefit of real estate. You can also defer tax
from the gain on a sale of investment property by "rolling" property in
a like-kind exchange. In other words, you can sell a property and,
instead of paying capital gains tax, exchange the property for
another, and then another. Like-kind exchanges allow you to "roll
forward" the gain from the original property to other properties. In this
way you, and not Uncle Sam, can decide when you'll pay taxes.

You can also offset the income you earn from real estate with
depreciation, which results in a "paper loss" or a "paper deduction."
The government allows you to deduct a portion of the value of your
property according to a prescribed formula. For example, under
current law you can depreciate a residential rental building over 27.5
years. Thus while you may actually be receiving a cash flow from the
property, you may pay little or no tax on the cash you receive
depending on the amount of depreciation allowed. That's surely the
best of all possible worlds.

Here's a handy tax tip: If you have a flair for seeing what "could be" in
a home and have some skill in decorating or home improvements,
consider buying a home for your personal residence that you fix up
and sell after occupying for two years. If you currently pay income
taxes at an average 31 percent federal and state rate and you make
a modest $30,000 on the fix-up, you've actually just found $43,478 in
equivalent extra income. (Includes tax savings of $13,478.) And you
can repeat this every two years!

PREPARE FOR OPPORTUNITY
The way to succeed in real estate, as with any investment, is to
prepare yourself to seize opportunity when you see it. For example,
you might identify a few neighborhoods in the "working class" area of
your community. Regularly visit the neighborhoods. If you have a dog,
take it for a walk and examine houses at your leisure. Ask people in
the neighborhood if they know of any houses for sale, and soon you'll
be flush with insider information about real estate in the area. Look for
signs of lapsing interest in the house such as a yard going to weeds.
Ihts could signal an impending sale, for example, by aging occupants
who are no longer capable of upkeep. It could be a good buying
opportunity. If a house comes up for sale, watch how long it's on the
market and what the ultimate selling price is. This will give you good
background information in case you decide to buy your first property. If
you're working with a real estate broker, ask this person to run a sales
history report for the past six months in the neighborhood.
There are many types of real estate properties that you may want to
investigate. Some examples are single-family residences, multiplefamily
units (duplexes on up to large apartment complexes),
commercial office space, industrial warehouses, and land. There are
also many different things you can do with real estate. You can buy a
property for quick resale. This is known as a flip. You can buy a
property to fix up and then sell. Or better yet, you might buy a
property to hold long term and rent to tenants. You could develop
land. You could convert apartments into condominiums and sell them.
You could have buildings constructed.



START SMALL
Rich Dad taught the importance of mastering a formula and then
learning another formula. A basic formula in real estate is to start
small, for example, with one single-family residence. You want to start
small because that way the cost of any lessons you learn along the
way will be small, not large. After you've mastered the formula of
buying and either selling or renting single-family residences, you may
decide that you want to graduate to another type of real estate, such
as commercial or industrial. But start small and start simple to get
the best results!


Master a formula
and then learn
another one.


LOCATION, LOCATION, LOCATION-SOMETIMES...
You might have heard the saying that there are three ways to find a
good piece of property: location, location, location. While location is
important, it isn't the only consideration when you're seeking
investment opportunities. The best location for a commercial
property-a busy street with lots of traffic-would be a bad location for
a residential property. Look at property for the following characteristics:

• Construction. What type of building is it? Could there be a potential
problem such as a bad roof or termite damage in a wood building?
• Condition. What shape is the building in? Is there a significant
amount of maintenance needed? Does the yard need sprucing up?
If it's a commercial property, are there any lurking environmenlal
problems?
• Consistency. Does the home fit in the neighborhood? Are 11s style
and grounds consistent with those of other properties in the
neighborhood?


A GOOD DEAL THAT COULD BANKRUPT YOU

Diane Kennedy, CPA and Rich Dad Advisor, tells the story of one
of her former clients, Joe. A new freeway interchange was slated
for construction within three years, and Joe recognized that the
land adjacent to it was much cheaper than it would be three
years down the road. So he purchased one acre for $175,000.
Three years later the property had climbed in price to $575,000.
What a great deal for Joe, you might say! Sadly, no. Joe had
bought the property with a high-interest bank loan, and six
months before the interchange was completed and the property
went up in value, he went bankrupt and lost the property. Raw
land isn't an asset until it sells and you receive cash that you can
turn into passive income. Meanwhile, it's a liability. Joe hadn't
counted on that liability. He didn't have the resources to cover the
loan payments and other costs. Someone else bought the
property during a bargain-basement foreclosure sale. A great
deal for one person can be a bad deal for someone else.


THE DOUBLE-EDGED SWORD OF
DEFERRED MAINTENANCE

DAferred maintenance refers to maintenance that previous owners of
a property have neglected. They have "deferred" upkeep to the future.
Deferred maintenance can run the gamut from simple painting and
yard work to large projects such as a new roof or furnace. Some of
the best real estate opportunities are found where deferred
maintenance is cosmetic and relatively inexpensive. A little hit of paint
can make a house look new again. Replacing a roof or a furnace,
however, can be expensive and have little perceived value for a
prospective buyer. Sometimes deferred maintenance will work in your
favor-but not always. Make sure you're on the right side of the deal!


USE YOUR TEAM TO EVALUATE YOUR PROPERTY
The best money you ever spend on a real estate purchase may
very well be the money you spend for a professional inspection.
A professional inspector will check your property for any potential
problems such as maintenance that the previous owner has put
off or safety code violations. The inspector will prepare a
"condition report" that you can then present to the seller, who
may fix the problems or actually reduce the cost of the house to
cover the repair costs. Don't be afraid to ask!


REAL ESTATE TEAM MEMBERS
Who will act as your real estate advisors? That depends on your
personal circumstances and goals. Common members for a real
estate team include:
• Real estate agent/broker
• Insurance agent
• Real estate attorney
• Mortgage broker or loan officer
• Home inspector


One of the most important members of your team is the real estate
agent or broker. This person is usually considered a "seller's agent"
because when the sale is consummated he or she is paid a
percentage of the sales price by the seller. Because agents and
brokers are only paid when the sale occurs, they're usually motivated
to see a sale go through at highest price. Don't expect the broker to
find a good deal for you. After all, if the broker is also an investor and
can recognize a good deal, chances are he's already snapped it up


You must be able to describe clearly what you want to your agent or
broker. Describe the price range, location, and other specific
parameters. The broker can be a great source of information
regarding comparably priced properties, known as comps. Use your
broker to improve your education, but don't expect this person to
make your real estate decisions for you. That's your job.



HOW TO GET STARTED
As mentioned earlier, your best bet is to get acquainted with an area
so that you can recognize a deal when it presents itself. It's usually
easier to sell or rent a home in the lower price range. Typically, real
estate investors look for houses under the median price in a given
area. Look for problems you can easily and cheaply fix. Read the
classified ads in your local newspaper. Hand out business cards with
your name and the message "I buy houses." Hang a notice at your
local supermarket. Tell your friends you're interested in buying
homes. Expand your network. Go to open houses to get a sense of
pricing, quality, and demand. Keep educating yourself about fair
market value or you won't know a good deal when you see one.

How do you do this?
• Research local listing prices on the Internet.
• Check your paper every week for recent sale prices, and drive by
some of the properties.
• Ask your realtor to run off comparable listings for the past year. If
properties have sold, note the difference between the asking price
and the sales price. If properties are languishing on the market,
determine what strikes they have against them.
• Familiarize yourself with traffic patterns, zoning regulations, and
development plans tor the neighborhood or commercial district you
want to buy into.



LINE UP FINANCING
Before you go looking for a building, look for a lender. It mayor may
not be the same lender with whom you ultimately sign a mortgage
agreement. At this point, your main goal is to ask these questions:
• What are current mortgage interest rates, and are they expected to
change?
• Given the type of property you're considering, what financing terms
does the bank offer?
• How long does it take to get pre-qualified or pre-approved for a loan?


A bank may not be the best source of real estate financing for you.
Check with mortgage companies, particularly those that offer more
than one line of financing. People who have the designation
"mortgage broker" run these types of companies. They have the
ability to shop for loans that will best fit your circumstances.
In advance of your visit to the bank or mortgage company, you might
try running your own mortgage analyses using home-computer
software or websites such as "The Intelligent Mortgage Agent" at
www.homefair.com. Calculate the debt service for several properties
of varying cost and size, and estimate the potential amount of
income you would receive from a rental arrangement. If you plan to
hold the property until you can sell it for profit, make sure you have
adequate cash reserves to hold you until lim sale goes through.

What if you have little or no money for a down payment and the
banks turn yuu away? You'lI have to make up tor lack of cash with
extra determination. There are a number of options available to the
cash poor. You might be able to take out an equity loan on your
home, or obtain seller financing, or borrow from your life insurance
policy. Some banks otter "shared-appreciation mortgage" programs
allowing buyers to put less down in return for a share of the profits.
Credit unions often give mortgages, and the Federal Housing
Administration (FHA) has special financing programs that require no
money down. Another option is to form a group of investors and
establish a partnership or corporation to purchase the property. If all
else tails, you can ask a relative or friend to help out, in which case
make sure yuu put repayment terms in writing.


GAIN A COMPETITIVE EDGE
Fortune, as they say, favors the prepared mind. A letter from a
lender stating that you are pre-qualified or pre-approved for a
mortgage will increase your negotiating power with sellers. What
do these terms mean? When you're pre-qualineo, the lender
attests to the amount of mortgage you can carry yet stops short
of approving you for financing. When you're pre-approved, the
lender commits to providlnq a mortgage up to a specified limit. If
you're in a seller's market, pre-approval is vital to beating out tile
competition.



RATE YOUR PROPERTY
Many of the same features you look for in a home can be used to rate
investment real estate. A property's location and quality are the alpha
and the omega of a good buy. Location comes first. A stunning property
in a terrible neighborhood is almost never a good deal, whereas a rundown
home in a prime location has the potential for significant gam.
However, location means nothing if the numbers don't work.
When assessing location, keep in mind the property's access to
public transportation, shopping, and schools; the safety, quietness,
and overall appearance of the neighborhood; the proximity of police
and fire protection; the property's value relative to the area; and
potential changes in zoning regulations. When assessing quality, look
at the property's curb appeal, structural integrity, floor plan, and
square footage; the number of units; the lot size and landscaping; the
condition of mechanical systems and appliances; interior and exterior
cosmetics; the availability of parking; asbestos, lead, radon, and
other potential environmental hazards; and compliance with current
zoning regulations.


Once you've found a property that passes muster, dig deeper by
asking these questions:
• Do you have the time and money to repair and maintain it, or can
you afford a management company with the rental income the
property will generate?
• Has the property been on the market a long time, and jf so, why?
• Why does the owner want to sell?
• Are current tenants paying their rent on time?
• Is there a "bad apple" who will be hard to evict?
• Is the property under rent control?
• Are leases all coming up for renewal at the same time, or at
staggered dates? You wouldn't normally want all your tenants to
Vacate at the same time.
• Is the property in foreclosure, and if so, why?
• Ask your broker to prepare comps for similar properties in the
neighborhood. How does this property value compare to them?
• Is this property priced to sell?
• How long do other properties tend to stay on the market?
• Do the amenities of the property add to or detract from the value?
For example, a swimming pool in Phoenix, Arizona, might be a
good idea, while a swimming pool in Montreal, Quebec, may not be
equally attractive.


The answers will help you determine whether or not the property is
overpriced and how eager the owner is to strike a deal, thereby
putting you in a better negotiating position should you decide to buy.


Now for the ultimate test: Does the property generate a positive cash
flow? Remember, you want to invest in an asset, not a liability. Don't
take numbers provided by the owner or realtor at face value. Run
your own, allowing for vacancy time and possible nonpayment of
rent. Don't fudge the figures because you feel this is a good buy. Like
Dragnet's Sergeant Joe Friday, you should just gather the facts.

Bear in mind the Rich Dad method of buying real estate. You should
see dozens of properties for each one you buy.The only way to
understand the real estate market is to look at what's available and
study the numbers. You should feel free to make a lot of offers, some
even ridiculously low. After all, no price is too low if the seller says
yes, and sometimes the seller will.


NEGOTIATE YOUR DEAL
If after doing your calculations and homework, the property looks like it
could be a good bUY, determine your highest walk-away price. At what
place does this property no longer make financial sense? Remember,
use your calculator, not your hF!~rt! Don't lead off with your highest
walk-away price. And don't let your broker talk you out of your offer. In
most states, the real estate broker is required to make all offers. Don't
worry about hurting the seller's feelings. This is a business deal.
You'll be writing up an offer that the broker will present to the seller or
seller's agent. Make the property subject to property inspection and
the receipt of suitable financing for you. You might also make the offer
subject to lawyer's review and lo your review and acceptance of
Homeowner Association requirements, or CC&Rs (covenants,
conditions, and restrictions). In the initial offer, write up the offer with
you as the buyer plus "and/or assigns:' Jane Doe would write up an
offer as "Jane Doe and/or assigns." The phrase "and/or assigns"
allows you to designate another buyer prior to closing. If you and the
seller are able to agree to a transaction, you'll want to consult with
your tax advisor about the best entity for holding the property.



The seller will likely come back to you with a counteroffer. You don't
need to respond immediately to a counteroffer, and when you do, it
can be with a counteroffer of your own. Bear in mind that in
negotiation it is sometimes better to wait a little before responding.
Once you've signed an agreement, it's time to bring in your whole
team to make the transaction work for you in the best possible way.


BUYING A PROPERTY
Once you've found a property you can afford, one that has an
adequate cash flow and good cash-on-cash return, it's time to buy.
Now you'll be negotiating a purchase contract. This is a document
signed by both you and the seller that identifies the property, the
purchase price, any contingencies to be met prior to closing, and the
date of closing. Though purchase contracts are legal and binding,
you can buy a few days by including a clause that states the contract
is contingent upon review by your attorney. Here are other steps to
take prior to closing:
• Have an attorney set up a business entity to protect you from
personal liability. Understand the various options available to you,
and choose the entity that best suits your overall financial plan.
• Talk to a tax specialist about maximizing tax advantages.
• Have the property inspected.
• Find the best financing terms.
• Draw up a standard lease for new tenants.
• Set up an accounting system to track income and expenses. or hire
a management company to do it for you.
• Buy title, hazard, liability, and possibly rent-interruption insurance


"In moving to the B quadrant,
your goal is to own a system.
Think of the system as your
bridge to financial freedom


// ************* your own business, entrepreneur

CHOOSE YOUR BUSINESS
Presumably you've done an honest self-assessment and come to the
conclusion that you possess-or will work hard to develop-the
leadership skills required for entrepreneurship.
Once you've decided you have the right stuff, you have to choose
what sort of business to go into. Remember, where you are today is
the result of decisions made years ago. Where you are tomorrow will
be the result of decisions made now. Your choice is important


TAKE STOCK
The world is full of business opportunities just waiting to be
discovered, but they're not going to fall into your lap-you've got to
seek them out. The key is knowing where and how to look.
First, you need to take stock of your Skills, your financial goals, and
your dreams. Then you need to find opportunities to bring the three
together. You can start your search by looking in your local
newspaper. Your local newspaper is full of information about classes,
lectures, and services available to people who want to start up
businesses. Courses are frequently offered by community colleges,
local chambers of commerce, real estate brokerages, and even
banks. If you learn about a class that might be helpful, take it. You'll
be interacting with classmates and teachers who may give you
invaluable ideas about what sort of business venture to launch. And
don't hesitate to approach investors and business owners. Most
people are happy to talk about themselves and share their ideasseize
the opportunity to learn from experts


DO YOU HAVE THE RIGHT STUFF?
The successful entrepreneur isn't a specialist. He or she is a jackof-
all-trades with a broad array of character strengths and
leadership skills. Before launching yourself in the B quadrant, ask
yourself which of the following adjectives apply to you-and
which you need to develop.

PERSONALITY TRAITS
Outgoing
Energetic
Flexible
Dependable
Independent-thinking
Resourceful
Self-motivated
Persistent


PRACTICAL SKILLS
Decisive
Communicative
Comfortable with the big
picture and small details
Organized
Cooperative
(a team player)
Willing to seek help
Money smart-Financially
Literate
Streetwise

Experience will
hasten the decision
about what sort of
business to pursue



GET FIRSTHAND EXPERIENCE
Firsthand experience will shorten the process of deciding what sort
of business to pursue.
You might try getting a part-time job in an industry you're
considering. In addition to answering the question of whether you like
GET FIRSTHAND EXPERIENCE
Firsthand experience will shorten the process of deciding what sort
of business to pursue.
You might try getting a part-time job in an industry you're
considering. In addition to answering the question of whether you like


DO RESEARCH
In addition to getting firsthand experience, you should do some
research. How many businesses of the sort you're interested in
operate in your community? Check out the competition. Think like a
customer. Take careful note of what you think these companies do
right and what they do wrong. Is there room for a business that would
do things differently? Researching the competition will help guide
your decision about what type of business to enter.

Extend your research further. Look at mainstream publications like
The Wall Street Journal, The New York Times, The Los Angeles
Times, and Time. These report on various trends-for example,
economic, political, demographic, and technological-that might
affect what business you choose. For example, let's say you have
experience designing software, and you read an article reporting that
more and more Americans are working in home offices. This
demographic trend might inspire you to start up a company that
offers an accounting software program to the self-employed.



PART TIME OR FULL TIME?
You also have to decide whether to work part or full time. Of course,
this depends on your personal financial situation. Will you or your
family suffer if you quit your full-time job to start a business? If so,
then maybe you should launch a part-time business on the side and
leave your regular job only when the business has grown enough to
supply a steady income. Going into business part time is an excellent
way to test the waters. If you have the interest and stamina to keep
on going, then chances are you'll eventually be able to devote
yourself full time to the venture.


PART TIME DOESN'T HAVE TO MEAN HALFHEARTED
Dell Computers is a giant-sized company that was started on a
part-time basis---in a dormitory room at the University of Texas.
As history has shown, the enterprise was anything but
halfhearted. Student Michael Dell had to drop out of the University
of Texas because his part-time job was making him far richerthan
he would havebeen had he stayed in school and studied.


STARTING YOUR OWN BUSINESS
Of all business options, starting your own company is the most
difficult because you'll be a lone ranger, developing every system on
your own. It is also potentially the most rewarding, for if you succeed
you can say that you did it your way. Let's assume you've assessed
yourself and the answer is yes, you do have what it takes to create a
company-the burning desire, the resourcefulness, the flexibility, the
discipline, the organizational and leadership skills, and the
willingness to make financial sacrifices. You've taken stock of your
experience and Interests and decided what type of business you'd
like to launch. So, where do you begin? Here is just a partial list of
the steps you'll hava to take:


• Name your business
• Begin to seek funding sources
• Search for outside advisors
• Set up a relationship with your banker
• Protect proprietary information
..Write a business plan
• Select your location
• Plan ahead for bookkeeping, accounting, and office systems
• Decide on pricing strategies
• Determine employee needs
• Prepare your marketing plan
• Seek insurance coverage
• Address legal issues
• Fine-tune your cash flow budget
• Set up your office
• Hire employees



IF THERE'S A WILL THERE'S A WAY:
GUIDANCE FOR THE START-UP ENTREPRENEUR
Feeling faint of heart? Then take heart: There is an abundance of
resources out there to give you support and guidance. You might
start by consulting E-Myth by Michael Gerber, David Bangs'
detailed Start-Up Guide: A One- Year Plan for Entrepreneurs, as
well as the bimonthly magazine In Business, which offers plenty of
tips for companies wIth fewer than ten employees. If funding is a
major stumbling block, pick up a copy of Borrowing to Build Your
Business by George Dawson. On-line sources that cater to small
businesses are plentiful too. Check out the following websites,
which provide information on all aspects of business development
as well as links to other sites: www.ricnasd.com,
www.americanexpress.comlsmallbusiness. and www:smal/biz.suny.edu.
Invaluable help can also be found by attending trade shows,
interviewing trade association executives, looking into programs
offered by your local college or the Small Business Administration
(phone 202-6064000), or contacting counselors from the Service
Corps of Retired Executives (www.scoredc.org).

As you can see, by no means are start-ups for the faint-hearted. To
keep on track, let your mission statement serve as your beacon. Start
with it and end with it, and revise it along the way if necessary. In the
process, you'll discover that all setbacks can be resolved. I::ven it you
don't see profits right away-and you probably won't-the experience
you gain from a start-up will be worth its weight in gold. If you
discover your market niche, and your product or service ends up
making the consumer's life better, easier, or happier, then eventually
you will prosper.



"In moving to the
B quadrant, your
goal is to own a
system and have
people work that
system for you.


DIDYOU KNOW?
In the mid-1950s, franchises were almost unheard of. By the mid1990s
they represented over a third of all retail trade in the
United States, and some half a million Americans owned
franchise outlets.Why the phenomenal rise in franchising? At the
most fundamental level, this method of doing business
represents the American dream. A person who purchases the
rights to a franchise isn't just "buying a job"-he or she is
pursuing a dream of financial independence, self-management
and above all, personal fulfillment.
Additional information on how to pursue your personal dream is
available in The Franchise Bible: How to Buy a Franchise or
Franchise Your Own Business, edited by Erwin Keup and Vickie
Reierson, and in Michael Powers'sHow to Open a Franchise
Business. For additional resources, including the names of
attorneys and other experts well versed in franchising, click on to
www.businessnation.com/franchises.



In addition to
comprehensive
training and
minimal start-up
costs, network
marketing offers
you the choice of
either full or part time
work and the
option of working
at home.



Are you right for network marketing? Many of tha traits that make for
a good franchisee also make for a good network marketer. You'll
need to be:
• Courageous. Moral support may be hard to come by at first.
• Receptive. Can you take advice from people more experienced
than you?
• Congenial You should concentrate on training and developing
people rather than making money-the profits will follow later.
• Passionate and communicative. Products don't sell themselves;
people sell products-and in the case of network marketing,
business opportunities-by communicating with passion.
• Persistent. Rome wasn't built in a day, and network marketing isn't
for get-rich-quick wannabes.
• Self-disciplined. Though you'll probably have a mentor to guide you,
you'll still have to set up a daily routine for doing business and stick
with it.
• Able to deal with rejection. A network marketer must learn to
accept rejection and move on.


Next ask whether the company offers strong. ongoing educational
programs and a sound mentoring system. Regularly attend company
meetings (ideally, you'll comparison shop by attending meetings of
other networking outfits as well). Learn about the organization's
systems and compensation plans. Get to know the distributors. Do
you respect and enjoy being with the people who work for this
company? Your best bet is to select a business with a good training
program, satisfied distributors, a well-oiled distribution system, and a
compensation plan that has been successful for years. Once the
company meets all these criteria, then ask yourself whether the
company's product or service is one you believe in and can share
confidently with others. If, after all this legwork, you're convinced that
you've found a business with a track record that also sells something
you can stand behind, then you've laid a solid foundation for future
financial independence.


CHOOSE YOUR MENTORS
AND YOUR TEAM

Now that you've chosen your business, it's time to choose your team.
If you were planning to scale Mount Everest next year, wouldn't you
want to speak with someone who had survived the journey to the
top? You'd be surprised how many people, starting the climb up their
own financial mountains, ask the advice of people who are
languishing below sea level. It doesn't occur to these climbers that
their advisors have little or no firsthand experience. The world is lull
of S quadrant types trying to tell others how to enter the B or I
quadrant. Seek out a mentor who "walks the talk"-someone who
has already achieved what you would like to achieve. For instance,
you would not want someone who achieved his or her success in real
estate to necessarily become your mentor for building a business to
sell restaurant supplies.
As you begin, you'll also need a team of advisors. You should not risk
the ordeals of building or investing in businesses without the expert
help of others.


"You don't need to
know every answer,
but you do need to
know who to call
for the answer. "



FIND A MENTOR

Amateurs might not have coaches. but professionals do. One of the
most important steps you can take upon entering the B quadrant is to
set aside any discomfort you might have about asking for help. Seek
out role models and learn from them.

Fishing for prospects isn't all that difficult. It's a matter of swallowing
your pride, working up your courage, and approaching people.
Businesspeople are busy but they are generally willing to share their
success stories. Many talented folks in the B and I quadrants are
willing to lend a helping hand. You can seek them out through the
following avenues:

• Successful business people that you know. They may know
someone who has succeeded in the business you have chosen and
be willing to introduce you.
• Your local civic and volunteer organizations. Join several
organizations and you will meet others who may have experienced
success in the very business you are starting.
• Your local newspaper and local TV news station. Start by looking for
successful people in your own backyard. Which of them do you
admire and would you like to approach?
• Your local chamber of commerce. Your chamber of commerce and
other local business organizations sponsor classes, seminars, and
social events for you to meet potential mentors.
• The business department of a community college near you.
Community colleges often offer mentoring programs in association
with local businesses.
• The Small Business Administration. This division of the U.S.
Department of Commerce has an excellent mentoring program
staffed with experienced people from all over the country.


Perhaps the easiest way to convince someone to mentor you is the
direct approach. Don't hesitate to call or write. Be polite. State clearly
what you want and why you've thought of this person. You may be
surprised at the response. Chances are your candidate mentor will
be flattered by your interest and, like most people, will enjoy talking
about what he or she knows best. You might suggest having lunch
together. If this pans out, go prepared, and pay the bill. You're
conducting an interview of sorts. Do what the professionals do and
write your questions out beforehand.


Fear: I can't pester busy people by asking them to
mentor me.

Fact: Many high achievers relish the chance to mentor
those who express a genuine passion to learn.
High achievers like to share their experiences.

Freedom: Swallow your fear of approaching winners, and
you'll start turning yourself into a winner.
Remember to consider how you can help your
potential mentor. It is the concept of exchange.


ONCE YOU'VE FOUND A MENTOR...
You probably won't get all the information you need after a single
meeting. What you want to do is establish an ongoing relationship.
You want someone who will teach you everything, then be available
for support once you're on your own. The problem is, what's in it for
the mentor? Why should this person bother to take you under his or
her wing? While it may be true that at this time your resources are
limited, that doesn't mean you have nothing to offer.

Find out what your mentor needs. Fortunately for you it's unlikely to
be money, since this person is already financially successful. Feel out
your mentor. In exchange for information and training, offer whatever
you can in the way of help. The possibilities are endless, and of
course depend on the nature of the business and your Own field
of expertise.


APPROACH BUSINESS AS A TEAM SPORT
Some people insist on doing their own tax planning and legal
work to save money. What they're really doing is ignoring their
businesses. While they may save money in the short run, the
eventual cost of not paying advisors wilt be much larqar. If you really
want to succeed in business, you can't go it alone. No one who is
successful ever does.
When you do decide to put together a team, remember there is truth
in the adage "You get what you pay for." Free advice is usually worth
exactly what you pay for it-nothing. You should consider paying the
professionals on your team well. Why? Because if those people use
their specialized knowledge to support you, they'll make more
money for you.


It doesn't pay to scrimp. If the people you hire fir your
team use their specialized knowledge to support you, they
should make you money. The more money they make,
the more money you will


Putting together a good team will require effort as well as money.
Look at it as effort well spent. There are plenty of professionals - lawyers,
accountants, tax planners, and the like-who will claim they
can help you, and maybe they can. But you're looking for more than
that advisor. You want their support, their encouragement, and their
respect. What you don't want is someone telling you that you aren't
capable of doing something when you know deep down that you are.
You want to explain your goal and have professionals help you get
there. The good professional will identify the risks, know how to
minimize them, and ensure that the route you take doesn't
inadvertently run afoul of some law. Hire professionals who will
support your goals, not question them.


AN EXERCISE: SAY NO TO THE NAYSAYERS
If you're surrounded by naysayers, it's time to reconsider the
company you keep. Here's a simple exercise to make you aware of
the company you keep.

Write down the six people with whom you spend the most time.
Children count as one person. Personal friends may not automatically
qualify, but co-workers, spouses, neighbors, and members of any
religious organization or charity may. After each person's name list the
quadrant in which he or she earns money. Next list what type of
investor that person is: just starting, accredited, qualified, sophisticated,
inside, or ultimate. If you don't know, take an educated guess.

Now, take a look at the CASHFLOW Quadrant
Place the initials of the people you spend time with in the appropriate
quadrant. Then put your initials in the quadrant that currently
describes you. In different color ink, put your initials in the quadrant in
which you want to be five years from now. If the people you spend
time with are in the quadrant that's your five-year goal,
congratulations-you're surrounded by like-minded folks who will
support you. If not, beware of naysayers. You may want to change the
company you keep.


CRABS IN A BOX
Diane Kennedy, a certified public accountant and a Rich Dad
Advisor, tells a parable from her childhood when she and her
family would go catch Dungeness crabs on the Oregon coast.

They would bait a trap with a funnel-like opening designed to let
the crabs in but not out. If they caught more than one crab they
would store the catch in a shallow open box without worrying
about losing any.Though the crabs were large enough to escape
the box and scuttle back into the water, oddly enough, they
didn't. As soon as one attempted escape, the other crabs in the
box would pull it back. Diane says that some friends and advisors
are just like those crabs-if they think your goals are too big, too
daring, they'll pull you back into the box.

Diane suggests that upon receiving negative comments, you ask
yourself two questions:

1. Did the naysayers fail at some venture? If so, they might be
saying you can't succeed when in truth they're afraid they can't
succeed.
2. What are their comments really telling you? Sometimes a
negative remark signals fear of change. Most people don't
want to budge and they don't want you to budge. Because if
you budge-if you pursue your goals-you might be leaving
them behind.
Don't listen to the naysayers who try to hold you back. Find good
advisors and follow your dreams.


SHOPPING FOR A TEAM
Depending on your specific plans, there are numerous professionals
who might make suitable team members. Most likely your team will
break down into four general categories: financial, legal, real estate
and insurance. Once you've scheduled initial appointments with
candidates, it's a good idea to make a complete list of the questions
you plan to ask. This way you'll cover all your bases during the first
interview, possibly saving yourself money and time.


There are certain generic questions you should ask of every potential
advisor, no matter what his or her profession. These include the
following:


• What are your credentials? (You wouldn't have a surgeon operate
on your heart without first checking his or her credentials. The same
goes for an advisor whose advice will affect the shape of your
financial future.)

• In how many areas of my financial and business life would you be
able to assist me?

• What are your references?

• How long have you been in business? How long have you been
with this particular company or firm? (If a candidate has frequently
changed companies, it could signal trouble, Be prepared to call a
former employer.)

• Do you have a lot of clients? (Too many isn't necessarily good you'll
be squeezed into the schedule.)

• Are your clients generally people whose goals are similar to mine?
(If most of the clients have goals that vary radically from yours, this
person might not be the advisor best suited to your situation.)

• What are your fees, and how do you charge them?

• Would you be willing to meet with the other members of my team to
discuss my financial and business plans?
As you listen to the answers, feel out candidates to gauge whether or
not you'd be able to work with them. Are these people with whom you
feel comfortable? People you can trust? You may have to interview
two or three individuals before finding the right person for each
member of your team.


"People say
building a business
is risky. 1 say not
building a business
is risky, especially if
you can assemble a
team of qualified
advisors. "



FINANCIAL PLANNERS

Financial planners can be of invaluable help. Among other roles, a
financial planner provides advice on cash management and
budqetinq, tax planning, investment strategies, estate planning, and
insurance needs. This person's job is to assess your financial
situation and help you develop a customized, detailed plan to help
you reach your goals. You might want an advisor just to give you a
fiscal fitness report, someone who can help you determine your longterm
goals and with whom you can consult periodically. Or you might
want a planner to play an active day-to-day role in managing your
money.

About credentials. While financial planners need no credentials to
practice other than being registered if the state they're in requires it,
fortunately for you, some financial plannars are credentialed. In
addition to at least three years of experience, certified financial
planners (CFPs) have to complete a course of study and pass a twoday
exam covering everything from insurance and investments to
estate planning and taxes. Some financial planners are also
insurance agents. In addition to several more years of experience,
chartered financial analysts (CFAs) have to complete a course of
study and pass a rigorous exam covering portfolio management,
securities analysis, accounting, economics, and ethics.

How financial pLmners are paid. Knowing how individual advisors
get paid will prevent surprises and help you decide whom to hire.

Some financial planners are paid by commission, that is, a
percentage of any investment or insurance product you buy through
the planner goes into his or her pocket. Some financial planners
charge an hourly or flat fee for services rendered. Still others charge
a fee for advice, then a commission on each service, insurance
policy, or investment you purchase. In a fee-offset arrangement,
planners charge a fee for developing your investment plan, then
reduce the fee if you also purchase investments, insurance, or other
services through them.

W'hat to ask when shoppingfor a financial planner. Many planners
offer a free initial consultation. Take advantage of trus: go in with your
prepared list of questions and find out what you can expect. In
addition to the generic questions already mentioned, you should ask
the following:
• How often will I get a statement of my accounts? Monthly or
quarterly?
• Can I see sample plans (anonymous, of course) that you've
executed for other clients?
• Do you have a copy of the ADV form, part II? (This form, filed with
the state and the Securities and Exchange Commission, shows the
planner's education, fees, investment approach, and most
importantly, whether the planner has ever been in trouble with a
regulatory agency or court.)
• Do you represent a single entity in any area? For instance, do you
sell a specific type of insurance only?

W'hat to ask when shoppingfor a financial planner. Many planners
offer a free initial consultation. Take advantage of this, go in with your
prepared list of questions and find out what you can expect. In
addition to the generic questions already mentioned, you should ask
the following:
• How often will I get a statement of my accounts? Monthly or
quarterly?
• Can I see sample plans (anonymous, of course) that you've
executed for other clients?
• Do you have a copy of the ADV form, part II? (This form, filed with
the state and the Securities and Exchange Commission, shows the
planner's education, fees, investment approach, and most
importantly, whether the planner has ever been in trouble with a
regulatory agency or court.)
• Do you represent a single entity in any area?



HOW TO FIND A FINANCIAL PLANNER
When it comes to finding a financial advisor, you're probably
better off doing your own research than listening to the advice of
friends and neighbors. The first place to start is with successful
business people. Ask them which financial planners they use. If
they're happy with their planners, you're off to a great start. If not,
here are some professional organizations you can contact:


"Instead of living
below your means,
focus on increasing
your means
through asset
buying and proper
tax planning

TAX ADVISORS

Tax planning is an essential financial strategy of the rich. To manage
this all-important aspect of your finances, it pays to hire a
professional you can trust and with whom you feel comfortable.
Remember, whoever helps you with your tax planning will learn all
the details of your financial lite intimately. Choose carefully.

About credentials. There are many tax advisors who have no
certification and minimal educational training. You should seek out
those who are credentialed and have specific knowledge. Accredited
tax preparers (ATPs) and accredited tax advisors (ATAs) have to
complete a course offered through the College of Financial Planning
and pass an exam administered by the Accreditation Council for
Accountancy and Taxation. Enrolled agents have at least five years'
experience working for the IRS. Many hold master's degrees in
taxation or accounting and are fUlly qualified not only to offer tax
advice and prepare your taxes but also to represent you before Uncle
Sam should the need arise. If you're audited, you can only be
represented before the government by an enrolled agent, a tax
attorney, or a certified public accountant (CPA). 

A CPA must have at least a bachelor's degree, usually in accounting, pass a national
exam, and be certified by the state in which he or she practices. The
CPA should be a member of his or her state society as well as the
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Not all
accountants are CPAs. Some CPAs also earn the designation
personal financial specialist, or PFS. The PFS handles broad
financial planning and must meet rigorous educational and peer review
requirements.


How tax advisors are paid. There's no set way that tax advisors
charge, though their fees tend to be tied to experience. Typically, tax
preparers charge by the hour or by the number of forms it takes to
prepare your return. Others charge a flat fee. If you expect to consult
your advisor on the buying and selling of investments, settle on a fee
up front.

What to ask when shopping for a tax advisor. In addition to the
generic questions, you should ask the following:
• Do you have expertise in small businesses?
• What types of businesses and clients do you work with? (Unless
you're willing to pay for on-the-job training, you want someone
knowledgeable in your business.)




Fear: I'm better off saving money and not hiring a
tax advisor.

Fact: If you own a business, a tax advisor can save
you time, prevent errors, and maximize tax
savings.

Freedom: If you spend money on a tax advisor now, you'll
save money later.


• How conservative are you when it comes to deductions? (You don't
want someone who avoids taking a legitimate deduction for fear of
raising a red flag at the IRS.)
• Are you familiar with the tax laws in all the states in which 1may be
subject to tax?
• How will you handle any penalties or interest due if there's a
miscalculation on my return? (While you'll be liable for the tax due,
good tax advisors stand behind their numbers and will pony up if
they've made mistakes.)
• Will you represent me before the IRS if my return is audited?
• Will you review my last three years of tax returns? (This is a
wonderful way to judge the tax preparer's expertise. It's very common
for good tax advisors to find additional tax savings for new clients.

BANKERS
Since all banks generally provide the same services, it's important
that you select a banker, not a bank. A local bank where you are
personally known and have access to the decision makers is
probably preferable to a large regional bank where you're likely to be
judged by the size of your bank balance.
What you want is a so-called relationship banker. Relationship
bankers are customer-service oriented. They look for ways to make
mortgage and business loans that not only are profitable for the bank
but also fit customers' individual circumstances. Another type of
banker that might be of help is one whose institution has been preapproved
by the Small Business Administration to make loans to
start-up companies under the Preferred Lenders Program. For more
information, call the SSA's Answer Desk


How bankers are paid. Banks make their money primarily by
charging interest on loans, though often there are charges for other
services. such as minimum-balance fees for checking accounts.
Beyond the basic banking services, many banks offer investment and
estate-planning services, which are charged separately.

W1Jat to ask when shoppingfor a banker. Ask to meet with the bank
president, other top officers, or the branch manager to discuss your
financial goals and banking needs. If they don't seem interested in a
meeting, or they regard your goals as even slightly out of the
ordinary, this is probably not tile bank for you. If you get a positive
response, here are some suggested questions:

• Du you have recommendations for how I might meet my financial
goals?
• Does your institution stick strictly to a formula when determining
loans? (While there are often more reasons to refuse a loan than to
grant one, you want to be sure that in your case the bank takes an
open-minded approach.)
• How arc decisions made in your loan-review process, and how can
I work with the people who make them?
• Can I see the bank's financial statement and bank-rating reports?
(Check the bank's financial health by asking to see any of the
reports issued by bank-rating services such as Sheshunoff Ratings
Services, Veri-bank, and Bauer Financial Reports.)
• What deposit insurance do you have, and how far would protection
be extended to my account?


YOUR LEGAL TEAM
As you set off on your business venture, you may require more than
one lawyer since the law has become highly specialized. Which of
the various leyal specialties Is best suited to your needs? Business
lawyers advise on all corporate matters ranging from drawing up
legal papers for start-ups to settling partnership issues. Real estate
lawyers review real estate contracts and mortgage papers and
represent clients in Closings. Tax lawyers handle matters involving
federal, state, and local taxes and are invaluable when it comes to
interpreting the complicated tax code. They won't prepare tax returns
but are often associated with people who will.

Intellectual property lawyers are especially important in business.
They advise clients on matters involving ownership and rights in the
use of technology, information, and other aspects of business tools
and products. For example, they advise clients on such things as
obtaining and maintaining trade secret rights, copyrights, trademarks,
and patents. They help you license the use of software, of
endorsements, and of characters like Mickey Mouse. And they assist
you in negotiating and drafting contracts with others if there's a
chance an activity will create intellectual property, for example, when
developing products, advertising, and marketing materials. If you
believe you have a product that can be patented, make sure your
intellectual property lawyer is also a patent attorney. Patent attorneys
must pass a national patent bar in addition to the bar exam for the
state, or states, in which they practice. While all patent attorneys are
intellectual property attorneys, not all intellectual property attorneys
have passed the patent bar.


About credentials. Practicing law without a license is a crime in most
states, so be sure that at a minimum your lawyer has a law degree
and a license Beyond this, it might behoove you to look for an
attorney who wears more than one hat. Intellectual property
attorneys should also have technical or scientific background. Some
attorneys are also CPAs or hold other financial credentials.
Remember, however, credentials for financial planners vary. If you're
hoping to hire a lawyer who doubles as a financial planner, be sure
to check out his or her credentials in both areas. You might also want
to find a lawyer who is licensed in more than one state, for instance,
should you buy real estate in an adjacent state.

How lawyers are paid. While it's true that good attorneys can be
expensive, it may be more expensive for you in the long run not to have
competent legal counsel. Legal fees incurred to resolve disagreements
over contracts and agreements not properly documented will be much
higher than any fees you'll pay for proper documentation in the
beginning. At any rate, having an experienced attorney may be
essential to your enterprise, in which case it's worth the cost.

To perform routine legal services such as property title searches or
real estate contract reviews, most attorneys charge a flat fee, or fee-
for-service. Should you need ongoing advice from an attorney, he or
she will probably charge an hourly rate. Hourly rates can run into the
hundreds of dollars, so it's important to know a lawyer's rate ahead of
time. Will you be relying heavily on legal services? Then you might
want to negotiate a lower rate or ask for a ceiling on the amount
charged_ If you keep your lawyer on a retainer, that is. if you pay a
set amount of money on a regular basis, you're guaranteed legal
services whenever they're needed. If an attorney is managing your
assets, for instance handling the sale of property, he or she may
charge a percentage fee based on a percentage of the assets
involved. A contingent fee usually applies to situations where money,
especially from personal injury, is likely to be awarded. If you win the
case, your attorney takes a percentage of the award. If you lose, the
attorney gets nothing.
8e sure to ask if the attorney charges separately for out-of-pocket
expenses such as copying charges, long-distance phone calls, and
filing fees. These can add up, and it's best if there are no surprises
when the final bill comes.


What to ask when shoppingfor a lawyer. As with anyone on your
team, you need to feel at ease with your attorney. You want someone
trustworthy, able, and experienced. In addition to the generic
questions, here are some that will help you gauge your comfort level
with a potential attorney:
• What areas do you specialize in?
• Are you licensed in more than one state?
• Are you, or is someone in your firm, admitted to the patent bar?
• Will anyone else in your firm be working on my behalf? (You don't
want to discover later that your legal needs have been handed off
to another member of the firm, perhaps someone less experienced.
However, it may be to your advantage to have less experienced
staff perform some of your work, since they bill at much lower rates.
The point is to understand the firm's work and billing policies.)
• What can I do to help keep costs down?
• How often can I meet with you? (You want to avoid an attorney with
a heavy caseload who won't have time for you.)


Don't buy real
estate based on
what your eyes tell
you. Buy it based
on what your
mind tells you,
rationally. "


YOUR INSURANCE TEAM

The basic idea behind insurance is pretty simple: protect what you
cannot alford 10 replace, and cover yourself for unexpected events.
Your business probably won't burn to the ground, your employees
probably won't sue you, and you probably won't produce a defective
product that results in a class-action suit against you. Still, you need
to protect yourself and your investment, and that means getting an
insurance agent on your team.
Insurance agents are basically salespeople peddling insurance
policies. tndependent agents represent many different insurance
companies and can offer you a wide choice of insurance coverage.

Captive, or exclusive, agents work for just one insurance firm and
have more intimate knowledge than independent agents of the
coverage that particular firm offers. Some insurance agents are also
financial planners. In this case, they should be able to help you with
your overall financial plan.

About credentials. The only credential an insurance agent needs is a
license issued by the state. There are, however, a few designations
an agent can earn that you should look for. Chartered financial
consultants or chartered life underwriters have training that takes
between three and five years to complete. Chartered property
casualty underwriters have training in property and liability coverage.
Agents who have earned such designations tend to be more
experienced and knowledgeable than merely licensed agents. At any
rate, you should obtain the license number of any potential agent
and conduct a background check with your state insurance
commission.

How insurance agents are paid. Insurance agents are paid
commissions by the company or companies they represent. An
insurance company with a good reputation and a spotless record will
pay lower commissions because its policies are easier to sell. A
company with a less secure reputation will pay higher commissions.
What to ask when shoppingfor an insurance agent. Insurance agents
are likely to ask you just as many questions as you ask them. They
need to discover your goals and needs in order to tailor a policy to
your situation. So go to any interview expecting to provide some
basic information about yourself and your aspirations. When it comes
time to ask your own questions, don't forget these:
• What is your license number? (If the agent refuses or hesitates to
give you the number, walk away.)
• How many insurance companies do you represent? Which of them
receive most of your business, and why?
• In how many areas of my financial life are you qualified to assist me?
• How are claims reported to the company?
• Will you be available should I need service, or is everything handled
by an adjuster?


// 
Sometimes aspiring business people select advisors and the
relationship doesn't work out. Should a marriage prove not to be
made in heaven, how will you respond? Will you play the blame
game, assigning responsibility for things gone wrong to this advisor
who's proven less than satisfactory? Perhaps, in truth, you didn't plan
carefully enough in the first place and you selected a poor advisor.

****** People who point fingers don't learn from their mistakes. *************

If you're in genuine pursuit of financial freedom, you have to take
responsibility for an advisor who doesn't work out. This doesn't mean
blaming yourself. Blaming yourself is no different than blaming the
advisor. In any event, whose fault it is doesn't matter in the scheme
of things. Rather than blaming, you should simply part ways with the
advisor, admit to yourself that something went awry, and move on.

In a fledgling business enterprise, whenever you fall you have to get
back on your feet, dust yourself off, and forge ahead. You have to be
more like Thomas Edison, who tried 10,000 different experiments
before he finally succeeded in inventing the light bulb. In Edison's
mind, he hadn't failed 10,000 times-instead, he'd discovered 10,000
ways not to invent a light bulb.


CHOOSE YOUR ENTITY
Presumably you've been building your team, and you now have
access to sound legal and tax advice. It's a good thing, because
soon you'll be deciding what legal form your business will take.
Every business is operated under the umbrella of one of the following
entities: sole proprietorship, partnership, C or S corporation, or
limited-liability company. As we learned in Section 2, each entity has
advantages and disadvantages in terms of taxes, liability, and owner
control. The type of business you set up depends on your present
income, your plans and goals, your tax status, and a variety of other
circumstances. Which entity is right for you?
Don't forget that the legal form of your business is one of the most
important decisions you'll make. The tax code is thousands of pages
long and extremely difficult to wade through, yet you won't be able to
use that as an excuse if you choose the wrong entity for your
business. If you're thinking of setting up a business, do yourself a
favor: Hire a good attorney and accountant to advise you in the
process of selecting an entity.


LAYING THE GROUNDWORK
FOR YOUR CHOICE
Before you decide which entity to go with, there are a number of
important housekeeping chores to take care of:
1. Write a mission statement indicating what sort of product/service
you'll offer, examine the competition, and start writing a business
plan.
2. Begin assembling your team of professional advisors.
3. Take steps to legalize your business. Almost all jurisdictions
require some kind of licensure. Check with local, state, and federal
agencies to see that you comply, and expect to pay some fees.
4. Register your business name with the state. This will establish you
as a bona fide business and indicate whether your name is already
being used by some other company,


CHOOSING A BUSINESS ENTITY
Stumped about which business entity you should choose and
how to set it up? In addition to consulting an attorney or
accountant,

5. Get a trademark or patent for any intellectual property. Be sure to
check with a lawyer who specializes in patent law.
6. Scout out a place of business and check local zoning laws. In
addition to reviewing any leases with a lawyer before signing,
make sure you have the proper permits for your enterprise, for
example, health, fire, and sales tax permits. You are responsible for
making sure your business complies with local and state laws.




IS A PARTNERSHIP FOR YOU?
Let's say you don't want to run the show by yourself. Perhaps you
lack the experience to make a success of your business, or you
simply prefer sharing responsibility with others. Then you may
consider a partnership. It is often said two heads are better than one,
and for some people the additional ideas and enthusiasm generated
by a partnership can bring comfort to what would otherwise be a
daunting task. Partnerships can also increase the amount of available
capital, and new businesses need plenty of that.

On the down side, in a partnership you give up a certain measure of
freedom and control. People being people, disputes are bound to
occur, causing many a sleepless night. It is also important to
remember that business decisions and actions taken by your partner
are legally your business decisions and actions, even if you do not
know about them In advance. You are obligated by your partnership
to live up to all agreements entered into by the partnership. In a
general partnership, as in a sole proprietorship, liability rests entirely
on the shoulders of the owner(s). Not only are you fully liable for your
decisions, you're also fully liable for the decisions of your partner.
Once again, your personal assets are completely at risk, but now
they're at risk for decisions your partner may make.



"This is a secret
of the rich.'
The corporation
owns its own assets
and pays its
own debts."

CORPORATIONS
A third and very different choice of business form is the corporation.
Unlike the sole proprietorship and the partnership, the corporation is
an entity completely separate from you, the person incorporating it.
Your company is now an "Inc," and with that designation comes some
additional paperwork and compliance issues based on the laws of
incorporation unique to the state in which you choose to incorporate.
However, the corporation provides a level of protection for you.
Because it is a separate entity, it should provide protection for your
personal assets from creditors of the corporation. Although you may
want to do some of this legwork yourself, you should use a lawyer for
much of it.

Though the rules for creating a corporation vary from state to state,
there are two basic steps: You file articles of incorporation with the
state secretary of state's office or the corporation commission, and
you establish an operating agreement or shareholders agreement.

The basic document for incorporation can be obtained from the office
of the secretary of state. Different states have different names for this
document, for example:
• Articles of incorporation
• Certificate of incorporation
• Charter
• Articles of association

Once you incorporate, there are certain rules and formalities that
must be observed. For instance, most states require corporations to
hold shareholders' meetings and keep updated business records,
and some states have special forms for filing this information. SUCh
regulations may seem silly when you are the sole owner of and the
only shareholder in your corporation, but it is critical that you comply
with the requirements. If not, your corporation could be dissolved and
you might end up paying a fine. There are consultants who specialize
in assisting companies with compliance requirements. A consultant
will make sure all necessary meetings are held and documented, and
that all incorporation paperwork is filed with the state. Check with
your legal counsel, who may provide this service or direct you to a
consultant in your area.

On the bright side, remember that the corporation owns its own
assets and pays its own debts. This is the secret of the rich. If, on
paper at least, you don't own anything, then you can't lose it. If a
party claims injury from your business and sues, your personal
assets should be protected.

Before you incorporate, you must decide which type of corporation
best fits your needs. In Section 2, we discussed the pros and cons of
C and S corporations. Now you'n have to decide which one is for you.




// 
Sometimes aspiring business people select advisors and the
relationship doesn't work out. Should a marriage prove not to be
made in heaven, how will you respond? Will you play the blame
game, assigning responsibility for things gone wrong to this advisor
who's proven less than satisfactory? Perhaps, in truth, you didn't plan
carefully enough in the first place and you selected a poor advisor.

****** People who point fingers don't learn from their mistakes. *************

If you're in genuine pursuit of financial freedom, you have to take
responsibility for an advisor who doesn't work out. This doesn't mean
blaming yourself. Blaming yourself is no different than blaming the
advisor. In any event, whose fault it is doesn't matter in the scheme
of things. Rather than blaming, you should simply part ways with the
advisor, admit to yourself that something went awry, and move on.

In a fledgling business enterprise, whenever you fall you have to get
back on your feet, dust yourself off, and forge ahead. You have to be
more like Thomas Edison, who tried 10,000 different experiments
before he finally succeeded in inventing the light bulb. In Edison's
mind, he hadn't failed 10,000 times-instead, he'd discovered 10,000
ways not to invent a light bulb.



MOVE FROM EARN-TAX-SPEND
TO EARN-SPENO-TAX

By now you've chosen your team and your business entity. The next
step is to devise a tax strategy whereby you, the business owner, will
take advantage of the tax deductions allowed for your business deductions
for things you may have been paying for personally, with
after-tax dollars. This will allow you to move from the earn-tax-spend
model of an employee to the earn-spend-tax model of a business
owner.

In Section 2 we learned that the business owner starts out with a
gross income, then deducts all legitimate business expenses,
reducing net income as much as possible prior to paying taxes

The tax laws
were written for
the benefit of the
business owner.
lOu're paying more
in taxes than you
should if you don't
take advantage of
the deductions
provided for you. "

Business owners pay for many expenses before taxes-expenses
they would have to pay even without a business. With a little creative
thinking and proper documentation, a business owner can transform
everyday expenses into legitimate business deductions.

Always remember
that we may live
in a free country,
but we don't all
live by the same
laws. If you want
to be rich or get
rich quickly, you
had best follow the
laws the rich use


STUMPED ABOUT WHAT TO DEDUCT?
HELP IS HERE...
While a gOOd tax advisor can save you money, as a business
owner you'll optimize your savings if you have personal
knowledge of tax laws and choices. There are plenty of places to
seek help. For example, you can find lots of information on the
Internet at these sites:
* Internal Revenue Service, www.irs.ustreas.gov. Many IRS
publications address the topic of allowable business
deductions. You can download them from the web or get them
free by calling the IRS Tax Distribution Center at 1-800-8293676.
Some important publications include #334, Tax Guide for
Small Business; # 463, Travel, Entertainment, Gift, and Car
Expenses; and #535, Business Expenses.
" Smart Business Supersite, www.smartbiz.com.This provides
free information on how to run your business, including taxsavvy
tips.
" Business Toolkit WebSite, www.roolkit.cch.com.Click on
Controlling Your Taxes.


WHAT ARE LEGITIMATE BUSINESS
EXPENSES?
Legitimate business expenses, according to the IRS, are any
"ordinary and necessary expenses paid or incurred during the
taxable year in carrying on any trade or business:' Here are some
common business expenses:
• Fees for tax preparation
• Advertising
• Car and truck expenses
• Business travel
• Retirement plan contributions
• Office supplies
• Entertainment
• Insurance payments
• Professional organization membership dues
• Transportation costs
• Postage
• Business gifts of $25 or less
• Interest



What about your expenses? Do you require a truck or a car to
conduct business? You may have thought of deducting loan
payments on your vehicle. but have you also considered deducting
the cost of gasoline, oil, and tires? What about any repairs or
registration fees? Of course, not every expense will be a deduction.
The point is to reconsider all your expenses and determine which
might qualify as business tax write-ofts. Write down each and every
expense you have, no matter how irrelevant it may seem-everything
from clothing and childcare to vet bills and home security systems.
Then ask your tax consultant which of these expenses would rate as
a tax deduction for your particular business entity. The following chart
is an example of how some personal expenses can be converted to
business expenses:


One of the biggest advantages to business owners is that they can pay for many normal
expenses BEFORE taxes. These are expenses that they would have to pay for anyway, without
a business. With creative thinking and proper documentation, a business owner can turn
these expenses into legitimate business deductions!

Here are some ways others have turned their personal expenses into business expenses:
picture page 360

THE IMPORTANCE OF KEEPING
RECORDS

It's imperative that you keep complete and accurate records of all
your expenses for tax purposes. If the IRS ever comes knocking on
your door, you'll have to prove that your deductions are legitimate,
and these records will form the basis of your case. There are certain
expenses that the IRS will scrutinize carefully. They include travel and
entertainment expenses, business gifts, cars, and office supplies and
equipment. If you're claiming deductions in any of these areas, be
sure to record the who, what, where, when, and how much. Get a
business credit card and use it only for expenses you plan to deduct.

Write on all receipts the purpose of the expense, for example, a
business dinner with a prospective client, whose name should also
be recorded. It's a good idea, if you're traveling a lot, to keep a log for
business use of your automobile that includes the date, the mileage,
and the purpose of each trip. Have a file in your office just for
business receipts, and organize it monthly while your memory is
fresh.

You should keep most records for at least four years, and ideally
seven. Keep all records of investments other than real estate until
you sell, and hang on to records of real estate investments for seven
years after selling or as long as the cost of the property is used to
calculate the cost of a new property, as in a tax-deferred rollover.
Copies of business tax returns should be held for at least six years,
and longer if possible.


TAX FORMS FOR FILING BUSINESS DEDUCTIONS
In addition to keeping good records, YOU'll have to know which
tax form to fill OUt. Each business entity requires a unique form,
as follows:
• Sole proprietorship, schedule Cof form 1040
• Partnership, form 1065
• C corporation, form 1120 or 1120A
• S corporation, form 1120-S
• Limited-liability company, form 1065
calculate the cost of a new property, as in a tax-deferred rollover.
Copies of business tax returns should be held for at least six years,
and longer if possible.




ABOUT TAX AUDITS
A letter from the IRS doesn't necessarily mean you're being audited.
There are many reasons for the IRS to contact a business owner.
Among other things, you may have failed to report all your income,
made a mistake in your calculations (which could end up favoring
you), or filed your return late. Should you be informed that your tax
return is being audited, you'll have an opportunity to explain the
details of your return, and you'll be free to appeal decisions made by
the IRS. Don't panic. If you've followed the rules, kept good records,
and filed your returns on time. you've probably got nothing to worry
about. Remember, the tax laws are made to protect legal business
entities and their owners.


The IRS has three years, called a period of limitations, to audit your
return, unless you've underestimated your income by more than 25
percent, in which case the limit is six years, or you're suspected of
fraud, in which case there is no statute of limitations. If you're
audited, remember to:

• Get in touch with your tax preparer immediately.
• Make sure your records are in order.
• Respond to the IRS in a timely manner. Waiting to answer will
only make things worse.


Don't panic-be
prepared. "


FEAR: The IRS is out to get me. " I claim business
deductions, I might be audited.

FACT: The U.S. Tax Code contains laws that protect the
business owner.

FREEDOM: You can work within the law to decrease your
tax burden.


THE IRS TRINITY: HOW AUDITS ARE CONDUCTED

The IRS conducts an audit in one of three ways. A correspondence
audit is done by mail. The IRS asks you to post specific records
verifying that your taxes have been calculated correctly.
Remember, once they leave your hands original records have
a way of permanently disappearing, so send copies only. An
office audit is held in an IRS office, and only specific areas of
your return are questioned. Key point: Do not volunteer any
information about other areas, which might just open up a can of
worms. A field audit, conducted in your home or office, opens up
your whole tax return to examination. This will go more smoothly
if all your records are accurate and in order.


Often tax advisors and preparers represent their clients during
audits. In case you do have to show up, remember to:
• Dress professionally, and be calm and businesslike in meetings
with the auditor.
• Never lie.
• Keep your answers short and to the point when questioned. Do
not offer extra information.
If you disagree with the results of the audit, don't despair. You have
the option of appealing.


write your business plan and raise capital

Let's take a look at how much ground you've covered in your journey
across the bridge to the B Quadrant: You've chosen your business
entity, built your team, and learned how to take advantage of the tax
laws to maximize your profits. That's a lot of ground covered! Now
you're ready for the real nuts and bolts of building a business. It's time
to draft a business plan and seek funding for your new endeavor.


"Start with realistic goals, then improve upon or add to
the goals as your education and experience increase.
Remember that it is best to walk before you run. "


The business plan
is your road map.
It should help you
define your goals
and focus your
efforts on achieving
those goals.

A ROAD MAP FOR YOUR BUSINESS:
THE BUSINESS PLAN

One of the most important tasks as you move forward is preparing
your business plan. This is your road map to growth. The first draft
is for you, not potential investors. It should enumerate your goals,
highlight your weaknesses and strengths, and most importantly, help
you zoom in on ways to improve your operation. After you perform
additional research and seek out professional advice. you'll produce
a more polished draft to present to potential investors. This draft will
serve as a resume outlining your skills and experience and those of
your team, a management plan for your business operations, and a
tool for tracking your business progress.


GETTING STARTED
Give yourself plenty of time to produce a solid plan. Research takes
time, and you'll want the bulk of it done beforehand so that when you
sit down to write you won't be repeatedly jumping up to gather more
material. Make sure the plan is kept within reasonable limits, less
than thirty pages. Bear in mind that other people will be reading this
document, and chances are they'll be professionals without a lot of
time to spare. Should you have trouble keeping the plan short, revisit
your mission. If your mission is clear, it will focus your thoughts and
result in a concise presentation.

Just as important as conciseness is clarity. Try not to get tangled in a
web of words, and at all costs avoid pompous business jargon. Your
best bet is to write in a simple, straightforward style. It's also a good
idea not to overdo design elements. Ignore all those clever graphics
and borders that your word processing program dangles before your
eager eyes. The idea is to highlight your strengths by sticking to the
facts and streamlining your presentation. In this way you'll increase
your chance of closing the sale with potential investors.


Many ventures,
even those that
offer strong
business plans and
a needed product
or service, fail
because they are
undercapitalized.


Once you have your plan written, make sure several people
experienced in business read it. While criticism is hard to take, it is
harder to suffer rejection from investors who have noted all the
mistakes of your presentation and none of the potential strengths of
your new business. Your business plan is a looking glass to the
future-make sure you get it right.


Whatever source of capital you find (if you're fortunate enough to find
it), and whichever type of financing you choose (if you have the
luxury of choice), don't proceed with the funding scheme until you've
sought the help of a professional investment advisor and an attorney.
It is the business owner's job to make the business work, not to be
an expert on all financial minutiae. Find good advisors and use them


OUTSIDE THE B..I TRIANGLE:
START WITH THE FRAMEWORK

To attract capital, first you must establish your framework: mission,
teamwork, and leadership. Start by asking yourself this question:
Does my mission come first, above any thought of the profit in it for
me, and am I Willing to give it my all in order to keep the company
growing? If the answer is a definite yes. then you're ready to
assemble your team.

Just to make money is not a strong enough mission.
The mission of a business should be to fill a customer
need. If it fills that need and fills it well, the business will
begin to make money."


In assembling your team, look for people with experience and a track
record, and be willing to pay for outside expertise that could spell the
difference between success and failure. When you don't have the
money up front to hire specialists, consider inviting them to be
members of an advisory board, with the understanding that once
sufficient capital is raised, they will come on board. Another pointer:
Don't put together a business plan that's top-heavy with salaries.
Nothing turns away investors faster than potential business owners
who are raising money in order to reward themselves with a fat
paycheck. Investors want to see your eyes burn with passion and
commitment-not dollar signs.


While assembling your team, you should also be striving to improve
your leadership style. One of the best ways to do this is to volunteer
more. At your church and at work, volunteer to lead projects. In the
typical organization it is hard to find people who actually want to
lead. Most folks hide in the corner hoping no one will call on them.
Step up to bat. While this won't instantly transform you into a great
leader, it will produce feedback on your leadership style. And if you're
mature enough to hone your leadership skills in response, you'll
develop into a great leader.




A LEADERSHIP LITMUS TEST

• Are you depending on charisma to lead your team? Watch
out-leadership has less to do with personal magnetism than
with persistence in communicating your mission to your
people.

• Do you hole yourself up in your office all day long, poring over
numbers rather than getting out and talking with your team?
Financial statements are important, but so is mixing with-and
listening to-your employees. Watch out for the stuffed-shirt
syndrome. The best way to keep abreast of company progress
is through informallnteraetion and ad hoc meetings.

• When it comes to making decisions, do you put off the day of
reckoning? Leaders need to be action oriented; otherwise their
companies will succumb to paralysis.

• When giving a speech. do you stand stiff as a board and trip
over your words? It may be time to brush up on your body
language and public speaking skills. Try contacting your local
chapter of Toastmasters International, a nonprofit organization
that gives members the oppOrtunity to speak and be critiqued
by sympathetic peers. If you're developing an Internet
business, check out www./etoastmasters.org. Some
universities offer courses in communications training. And if
money is no object, you might want to hire a media consultant
to bring out your latent charm.

• Do you lead by command-telling people what to do, and
punishing them if they don't-or by enabling? leaders who
hire talented people and give them space to shine are
establishing an atmosphere of trust in which creative ideas will
flower. The personal development programs offered by select
franchises and network marketing organizations can help
develop and fine tune your leadership skills.



INSIDE THE B-I TRIANGLE:
CLIMB THE TIERS

With the framework-mission, team, and leadership-in place,
you're well on your way to building a strong business. Now it's
time to address the five tiers inside the B-1 triangle: cash flow,
communications, systems, legal issues, and product management.
Each is very important and dependent on all the others. A successful
business must have all five areas working together. Much as the
disruption to a fuel line can bring down a plane, a malfunction in
even one tier of the B-1 triangle can cause a business to derail in
even the best of times.



MANAGE YOUR CASH FLOW

Positive cash flow is essential for a growing company. You might want
to start your venture into cash flow analysis by playing the game
CASHFLOW: Investing 101.This will teach you the difference
between actual cash flow and phantom cash flow. Once you start up
your business, remember that cash flow management starts on the
first day, whether you have an Internet company, a rental unit, or a
hotdog stand. Attention to details in the early stages will pave the
way for success. Here are some pointers to help you contain and
direct your cash flow:

• Call on an accountant, banker, or financial consultant for advice in
structuring your cash management system.

• Delay taking a salary until your business is generating cash flow
from sales. If you're terribly strapped, keep your day job and start
your company part time.

• Review your cash position daily, looking at cash sources and needs
for the coming week, month, and quarter. This way you can plan for
any large cash need before it becomes a crisis.

• Keep a close eye on your ratio of assets to liabilities. This will
enable you to move quickly when money needs to be borrowed.

• Bill customers as soon as your product is shipped or your service
provided.

• Require payment up front until credit has been earned by your
customers.

• Pay your bills promptly, but ask for extended-payment terms from
day one. Ask for extended-payment terms again after you've made
several timely payments.

• Keep your overhead to a minimum. Don't purchase anything new such
as a copy machine-until sales justify the purchase.

• Invest your cash on hand to maximize its earning potential,

• Establish tight internal controls over the handling of cash.

• As your business grows, continue to keep a close eye on cash
management. Losing sight of cash flow during expansion is a
common reason businesses go under.

• Make sure your bank account is reconciled by someone other than
the person preparing checks or signing them.

If you purchase a franchise or join a network marketing organization,
you may find much of your cash management system already
provided. In either case, it's still important to have your own advisors
to help you structure your personal cash management system.
Follow your cash from receipt to deposit, from purchase order to
writing the check, and have an outside accountant review your
system to make sure you have adequate internal control procedures.

The ability to
run a company
from financial
statements is one
of the primary
differences between
a small business
owner and a big
business owner


THE ABCs OF ACCOUNTING

Let's review what we learned earlier: There are three basic
financial statements, and you should know how to distinguish
among them. An income statement reflects all revenues and
expenses for a given period of time. Total expenses are
subtracted from total revenues, resulting in the pretax profit. A
balance sheet shows total assets and liabilities at a specific point
in time. An asset is any item of value the company owns, such as
available cash, equipment, or property. A liability is any amount
owed, for example to suppliers, credit card companies, or the
IRS. A cash flow statement shows how much is received and
how much spent on a monthly basis. This statement, especially
critical in the early stages of a business, indicates whether there

Is enough cash to pay the bills. Whereas the income statement
focuses on earnings from operations, the cash flow statement
also covers investments, loans and their repayment, and other
balance sheet changes.



MANAGE YOUR COMMUNICATIONS
There are two types of communication: external communication-for
example, sales, marketing, customer service, and public relations and
internal communication with employees, investors and advisors.
Communication can be either written, as in advertising and copy
writing, or verbal, as in public speaking and negotiations. The better
you are at writing and speaking, the better your cash flow will be, so
it's imperative that you make an effort to hone your communications
skills.

As a general policy, you should attend at least one communications
seminar a year in any of the following areas: sales, marketing, raising
capital, ad and copy writing, public speaking, and negotiations. Since
raising capital is critical to the birth of a business, the aspiring
entrepreneur should attach high priority to effective communication
with potential investors.

Marketing is an ongoing part of every successful business. If you
stop marketing, the rule of thumb is that you'll see the impact six
weeks later in a drop in sales. If you need a boost in sales, .
communicate to your database. Your customer list should be one of
your company's most important assets.

Even more basic than the language of marketing, however, is the
language of sales. Sales IS what you do one on one, as opposed to
marketing, which is sales done via a system. Like it or not, the heart
of business is sales, and the person who balks at learning this
language is probably not going to make it in the B quadrant. Fear of
rejection is what makes people avoid sales. Fear, however, can be
conquered with training and experience. You might consider joining a
reputable network marketing company, which will provide sales
experience and offer a program in communication. By observing how
people respond and heeding the lessons, you'll gradually develop the
thick skin and speech style so critical to survival in the B quadrant.
Like other 8 quadrant leaders, you'll learn to express passion
for your business, whether you're selling a product one on one or
selling the company's mission before a convention hall packed
with thousands.



Fear I can't do sales. I'm too afraid of rejection.

Fact With training and experience, you can overcome
your fear of rejection. Once you overcome your
fear of rejection, you'll develop a thick skin and
critical communications skills.

Freedom Good communications skills will help you
become successful in the B quadrant.


In every marketing or sales effort, whether spoken or printed,
you should strive for three goals:
• Identify a need
• Provide a solution
• Answer your customer's question "What's in it for me?" with a
special offer


Don't lose sight of the sales talent you may need at the front desk.
Your receptionist or telephone operator is the first impression your
company may make on potential customers. Every time your
receptionist answers the phone or greets a visitor, your company is
sending a message.

In every marketing or sales effort, whether spoken or printed,
you should strive for three goals:
• Identify a need
• Provide a solution
• Answer your customer's question "What's in it for me?" with a
special offer

Consider the example of Frank Woolworth, communicator par
excellence. Woolworth splashed the words "5 AND 10 CENT STORE"
across his storefront signs and built a merchandising empire out of
the public's desire for inexpensive trinkets. The New York Sun wrote of
him, "He won a fortune in showing not how little could be sold for
much, but how much could be sold for little." If you truly are fulfilling a
customer need, then you can communicate with passion and create a
legitimate sense of urgency. Chances are customers will respond.

Just as critical as external communications is internal
communications. You have to keep employees fully informed and
engaged in your business. The more they feel a part of your success,
the more successful you'll be. There are times when the most
effective way to lead is by showing pride in the accomplishments of
your team.


COMMUNICATING WITH THE TROOPS
One way to motivate the troops in your companyis through
hoopla-corny rituals that raise morale by making work fun and
participatory. Not long ago at Tupperware, saleswomen would
attend a weekly"Rally"and march up on stage during the "Count
Up" to the applause of their peers. Badgeswere awarded based
on the previous week's sales performance. The ritual was
competitive but also entertaining, and everyone came out a
winner. Wal-Mart thrives on the traditions of small-town America:
parades, eating contests, and cheerleading squads. At one
annual meeting, the Wal~Mart "Shrinkettes" led a rousing cheer:
"California oranges, Texas cactus, we think K Mart could use
some practiceI"



MANAGE YOUR SYSTEMS
A good businessperson supervises all systems simultaneously and
identifies weaknesses before the weaknesses turn into system
failures. Don't underestimate the magnitude of this job, which cuvers
aspects of your company as diverse as product development,
accounting, order processing, human resources, and computer
systems. General oversight is especially important when your
company is growing rapidly, because you want to make sure that as
sales increase, so does your capacity to deliver. At each new level of
growth, start planning the systems needed to support the next level
of growth, from phone lines to lines of credit.

How do you learn to captain your own ship? One good way to gain
experience is through real estate. The average investor who buys a
building gets to tinker with most of the systems in a typical business.
Real estate is fairly stable and inert, so it gives the fledgling
businessperson a certain amount of time to correct things if any
one system goes wrong. And learning to manage a property for a
year or two teaches excellent management Skills. Where can you find
a good real estate investment? Look for someone who is a poor
business manager and take over. But avoid the temptation to buy a
property just because it is a bargain. Some bargains are cleverly
disguised nightmares.


Once you're launched, whether in real estate or some other
business, you should formalize your operations as much as possible.
Although you may already be performing many of the common
functions of a business, for example, product development,
manufacturing, and inventory, you may not have defined them as
separate systems. It's a good idea to record the operations of your
different systems in a policies and procedures manual. In creating the
manual, you'll inevitably find ways to streamline your operations and
improve your profitability. And the manual will become an invaluable
reference to your staff. The more you formalize your operations, the
more efficient your business will become. You may actually be
creating a new intellectual property asset in the process-efficiency
systems that can be copyrighted.


Once you're launched, whether in real estate or some other
business, you should formalize your operations as much as possible.
Although you may already be performing many of the common
functions of a business, for example, product development,
manufacturing, and inventory, you may not have defined them as
separate systems. It's a good idea to record the operations of your
different systems in a policies and procedures manual. In creating the
manual, you'll inevitably find ways to streamline your operations and
improve your profitability. And the manual will become an invaluable
reference to your staff. The more you formalize your operations, the
more efficient your business will become. You may actually be
creating a new intellectual property asset in the process-efficiency
systems that can be copyrighted.

If the learning curve isn't for you, you might want to look into buying
a franchise or joining a network marketing organization. where many
of the systems are automatically provided. You'll receive an
operations manual that describes the marketing, communications,
and other systems being provided to your business. Such "readymade"
businesses are attractive to many people, as the phenomenal
success of McDunald's suggests. McDonald's is the same
everywhere in the world-and it's run by teenagers. That's because
all the systems are finely tuned and already in place. Good
franchises can be relatively headache free




MANAGE YOUR LEGAL AFFAIRS

The best insurance for your business is admitting what you don't
know-and finding an expert to help you. You should consult an
attorney about any legal aspect of running your business. However, if
your cash flow is tight, seek out a lawyer who is willing to give you an
hour or two of his or her time, and arrive at the meeting with your list
of questions carefully prepared. Or you might convince a lawyer to sit
on an advisory board, in which case you're very lucky.

Here are just a few steps you may have to take to prevent legal
wrangles later on:

• Register the name of your company with the state. This will
establish you as a bona fide business and tell you whether your
name is already being used by some other company.

• If you're manufacturing a product and don't want it copied, register
the product name as a trademark with the U.S. government.

• If you plan to sell a product for which your state has a sales tax,
apply to the state tax commissioner for a resale tax number. You'll
be required to collect state sales tax.

• If you're hiring employees, ask the Internal Revenue Service for an
Employee Identification Number (EIN) so that you can pay their
Social Security taxes.

• Contact your state department of labor and/or employment security
and register and request the forms to pay unemployment tax,
disability, and state income tax for your employees.

• Check with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration to
make sure your offices meet workplace safety laws.

• Depending on the nature of your business, you may need to apply
for permits or licenses, for example, to handle flammable materials
or food. Direct your inquiries to the state association for your
specific field.

• Consult with an intellectual property attorney to make sure you
have adequately protected your intellectual property rights.

• If you're hiring employees, ask the Internal Revenue Service for an
Employee Identification Number (EIN) so that you can pay their
Social Security taxes.

• Contact your state department of labor and/or employment security
and register and request the forms to pay unemployment tax,
disability, and state income tax for your employees.

• Check with the Occupational Safety and Health Administration to
make sure your offices meet workplace safety laws.

• Depending on the nature of your business, you may need to apply
for permits or licenses, for example, to handle flammable materials
or food. Direct your inquiries to the state association for your
specific field.

• Consult with an intellectual property attorney to make sure you
have adequately protected your intellectual property rights.


PROTECTING INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY
A patent gives the inventor of a product the right to prevent
others from making or selling the product. A copyright, which
applies to such things as books, movies, and software, gives the
owner the exclusive right to make copies of and products derived
from a work. A trademark protects a word, name, or symbol that
distinguishes the owner's product from other products. A trade
secret right protects the owner's confidential information anything
from a computer program to the formula for CocaCola-
from being stolen, but only if it is indeed kept secret. For
an excellent introduction to the various protection mechanisms,
see Protecting Your #1 Asset, Creating Fortunes from Your Ideas,
An Intellectual Property Handbook by Michael A. Lechter, Esq.


MANAGE YOUR PRODUCT
Your product-or service-rests at the top of the B-1 triangle because
it is the expression of your mission. All tiers below support the lone-
term success of your product and therefore your business and your
mission. Be careful when talking with investors not to overemphasize
the importance of your product. Experienced investors know that
product is the least important aspect of a business. If the triangle's
framework and lower management tiers aren't solidly in place, then
no matter how stellar the product, it won't succeed


Above all, managing your product or service means developing it. If
you're selling a product, then development entails oversight of the
manufacturing method and process as well as pricing and bidding
mechanisms. One of the most important product-development tasks
is to create an atmosphere in which creative ideas bubble to the
surface, resulting in a new or improved product. During IBM's most
creative period, Chairman Vincent Learson staged "performance
shoot-outs" in which designs were worked on by competing groups.
As a result, almost all of IBM's innovations during that period were
the result not of formal product planning but of inspired "champions"
diligently tackling problems. It doesn't matter whether you're in the
high-stakes technology business or food catering-encouraging
groups or individuals to develop their ideas will eventually result in a
better product or service. And it will bring an invaluable side benefit
employees who are dedicated to your business because they have
your trust, attention, and respect.


MIND YOUR WEALTH

Keeping a fortune can actually be as difficult as acquiring it. The
newly rich sometimes imagine that they've grown smarter or been
blessed with the Midas touch. But the newly rich have to mind their
assets; otherwise all they've built is a house of cards. Even giants like
Donald Trump have had to file for bankruptcy.

«Poor is eternal,
but broke is
temporary. If you
lose everything
and yet you're
financially literate,
you'll be able to
build it again


«You'll never get
rich if you don't
have the
confidence to make
a good sales pitch
and then ask for
the check. ..


• Get a mentor. This person should not just train you but also
introduce you to elite investor circles. There will always be someone
who knows more than you do-search high and low for that special
person who will guide you in the ways of your chosen industry. Be
ready to devote a few years to the process, for experience is a
crucial part of the ultimate investor curriculum.

Hone your sales skills. To raise capital for a business that you wish
to take public someday, you'll have to sell your idea to potential
investors. Convincing others that your idea is worth their risk of
capital requires self-confidence, honesty, and business acumen. You
must be skilled in the art of public speaking, know your subject
inside out, and believe in what you're saying. Most important, you
must be able to ask for the check at the end of your sales pitch


Invest in management, not product. Because there are no
earnings by which to gauge profitability in start-ups, savvy investors
evaluate the management team. Even a surefire product won't
work if it's mishandled by the management team. Make sure your
management team includes someone experienced in going public.


Understand the i,Jdustry. When you start a company, particularly
one you intend to trade publicly, you're dealing with a myriad of
unknowns. At the very least, you should familiarize yourself with
your industry, everything from competitive pricing to the latest
government regulations affecting it.


Look for capital There are many sources of capital funding. You
can issue a private-placement memorandum (PPM) explaining the
investment opportunity you're offering and the terms for
participation. A PPM is drawn up by an attorney specializing in
securities law and is distributed to targeted investors. You can also
approach angels or venture capitalists. They not only fund emerging
companies but also often become partners and personal trainers to
get the businesses shipshape for an IPo.

Be patient. For a pre-determined time after a company goes public,
major shareholders and officers are legally restricted from selling
their shares of stock. So even if your company makes a bundle, you
must be patient about your equity.



PRESERVE YOUR FORTUNE

Minding your fortune means keeping it. A well-worn path has been
beaten by millionaires going to bankruptcy court. How can you avoid
that path? As counterintuitive as this may sound, you must reduce
income and increase expenses. Specifically, reduce taxable income
and increase expenses everywhere possible.

Remember Rich Dad's advice not to draw a large salary? That's
because a large portion of any paycheck you draw will be eaten up
by taxes. Since many of your nondeductible personal expenses are
also legitimate, deductible business expenses, you should let your
business cover them. You should likewise avoid paying income tax as
much as possible. Your business might supply you with a car, for
example. or cover the tab when you take a prospective client or
investor to dinner. Portions of these expenses are legitimate business
tax deductions.

But don't overindulge in business entertainment. You want to spend
pre-tax income on expanding your business by creating additional
assets. Otherwise you'll may end up frittering away profits on
doodads. Unlike a yacht or a diamond necklace, an asset is
something that returns money to the income column on your financial
statement. Assets lead to growth. And growth should be your mantra.
Before you make company profits, plan how you'll use them to
acquire or build additional assets, thus keeping your profits out of
Uncle Sam's pockets as long as possible. Learn how to have your
money work for you.


GIVE BACK
Getting back to the naysayers-some will insist you have no right to
want more money, that wealth isn't a worthy goal. Our society sends
mixed messages about money. It's considered the root of all evil, yet
those who control vast amounts of it are treated like gods. The fact is
private wealth has nurtured civilization throughout the ages. The rich
have built hospitals, schools, libraries, museums, symphonies, and
foundations for world peace. It is to the rich that the Mother Teresas
of the world turn for humanitarian aid. While the profligate lifestyles of
some have given wealth a bad name, money is the source and
foundation of many good deeds.


"If as you travel
the path toward
financial freedom
you give back to
the community,
when you finally
reach your goal.
you'll be richer
in spirit. »



A HUMANITARIAN HERCULES

By the time he died in 1919, the steel magnate Andrew Carnegie
had given $350 million to educational and humane causes. He
established 2,500 libraries, the Carnegie Institute of Technology,
an endowment for world peace, a fund to reward acts of bravery,
a foundation to support higher learning, and an institution for
scientific research. This man who had enriched himself turned
around and enriched communities all over the country.



Fear People will say I'm greedy if I aspire to be an
ultimate investor.

Fact If you become an ultimate investor you'll build a
fortune, and with that fortune you can give back
to the community. Ultimate investors have built
hospitals, schools, libraries, museums,
symphonies, and foundations for world peace.

Freedom Ultimate investors who are philanthropists are
applauded for their generosity.


AND THINK BIG
In the end, the reward of your Rich Dad journey is not only the
freedom that money buys but also the confidence you gain in
yourself-for they are really one and the same.
The reason most people stop and turn back from their dreams is that
the tiny person inside them beats the person who is bigger. Work
daily to be bigger than your smallness. Even though you still may not
be good at everything, if you keep on striving your world will change.
Never run from what you need to learn. Face your ignorance, your
fears, and your doubts. Make mistakes and then learn from them.

"Goals have to be clear, simple, and
in writing. if they aren't in writing
and reviewed daily, they aren't really
goaIs-- they're wishes.."

I hope that, in addition to all this, you've learned more about
yourself-about your attitude towards money, your avoidance of
change, and your tolerance of risk. For when you get right down
to it, Rich Dad's program is less about changing the mix of
securities in your portfolio than changing the mixed-up ideas
about security that keep you living from paycheck to paycheck.
I've said it before, and I'll say it again: The old advice "Get a good
education so you can get a good job and be secure for life" is
obsolete in the information age. Whether you like it or not, the
clock can't be turned back. The sooner you learn financial skills
for the new age, the sooner you'll take control of your life.

But while it's important to
proceed at your own pace, don't use learning as an excuse to
procrastinate. Rich Dad would tell you that the best teacher of all
is experience. Don't be afraid to make mistakes. Make a mistake,
learn from it and go out and try again. You'll never master a
financial skill or strategy until you've actually put it to use.
Not everyone will start his or her own business, let alone pursue
the course of an ultimate investor. It's taken me years to gather
the know-how and courage to scale those heights. No matter what
you choose to do, though, you'll be better off tomorrow for having
used this program inspired by Rich Dad. If the only change you
make is to think twice about buying assets instead of doodads,
you'll gain more control of your cash flow and thereby increase
your financial options. If you can do that much, you know you can
do much more. Go ahead, seize the opportunities out there.
Choose to be rich!

















