learn financial terms, maybe the basics of accounting
teamwork, leadership
learn: how to sell, negotiating, public speaking(for expressing your ideas)

// chose index fund with for ex 7% return rate, deposit like 100 dolars every month for 10 years you have final investment 123,520.40 Total monthly deposits 36,000.00 Total interest earned 87,420.40

// 4 things about buying learning material about business, entrepreneurship

Be very cautious of the make-money niche.

Only buy from people who can prove their experience to you.

Only buy from people who are in it for the long-term.

Only buy from people who have given you a tonne of value before the purchase.

A BIBLE FOR THE WRITING IMPAIRED
Businesspeople are notorious for not knowing hOw to write C1earty.
You don't have to become one of them. Before producing your
business plan, read The Elements of Style by William Strunk and
E. B. White (yes, the author of Charlotte's Web). This classic
primer on good writing can be found in the reference section at
your library or local bookstore. It's a quick read and will give you
lifelong tips on how to present your Ideas with razor-sharp clarity.


As a general policy, you should attend at least one communications
seminar a year in any of the following areas: sales, marketing, raising
capital, ad and copy writing, public speaking, and negotiations. Since
raising capital is critical to the birth of a business, the aspiring
entrepreneur should attach high priority to effective communication
with potential investors.


MARKETING SMARTS
Marketing is a way of letting potential customers know that your
business exists. It's important to send a clear message to
customers: How will your product or service make their lives
easier or better, and what sets it apart from the competition?
There are many ways to get this message out. As a busy
entrepreneur, you should concentrate on just a couple of
marketing methods.

The secret of successful marketing is that it must never stop, and
it must adapt to changing circumstances. Marketing is a constant
effort, for it is how a business is presented to the intended
market. For more information on marketing techniques, you might
want to consult Jay Levinson's cooks from the Guerrilla
Marketing series.

Marketing is an ongoing part of every successful business. If you
stop marketing, the rule of thumb is that you'll see the impact six
weeks later in a drop in sales. If you need a boost in sales, .
communicate to your database. Your customer list should be one of
your company's most important assets.

Even more basic than the language of marketing, however, is the
language of sales. Sales IS what you do one on one, as opposed to
marketing, which is sales done via a system. Like it or not, the heart
of business is sales, and the person who balks at learning this
language is probably not going to make it in the B quadrant. Fear of
rejection is what makes people avoid sales. Fear, however, can be
conquered with training and experience. You might consider joining a
reputable network marketing company, which will provide sales
experience and offer a program in communication. By observing how
people respond and heeding the lessons, you'll gradually develop the
thick skin and speech style so critical to survival in the B quadrant.
Like other 8 quadrant leaders, you'll learn to express passion
for your business, whether you're selling a product one on one or
selling the company's mission before a convention hall packed
with thousands.



Fear I can't do sales. I'm too afraid of rejection.

Fact With training and experience, you can overcome
your fear of rejection. Once you overcome your
fear of rejection, you'll develop a thick skin and
critical communications skills.

Freedom Good communications skills will help you
become successful in the B quadrant.


Above all, managing your product or service means developing it. If
you're selling a product, then development entails oversight of the
manufacturing method and process as well as pricing and bidding
mechanisms. One of the most important product-development tasks
is to create an atmosphere in which creative ideas bubble to the
surface, resulting in a new or improved product. During IBM's most
creative period, Chairman Vincent Learson staged "performance
shoot-outs" in which designs were worked on by competing groups.
As a result, almost all of IBM's innovations during that period were
the result not of formal product planning but of inspired "champions"
diligently tackling problems. It doesn't matter whether you're in the
high-stakes technology business or food catering-encouraging
groups or individuals to develop their ideas will eventually result in a
better product or service. And it will bring an invaluable side benefit
employees who are dedicated to your business because they have
your trust, attention, and respect.

AND THINK BIG
In the end, the reward of your Rich Dad journey is not only the
freedom that money buys but also the confidence you gain in
yourself-for they are really one and the same.
The reason most people stop and turn back from their dreams is that
the tiny person inside them beats the person who is bigger. Work
daily to be bigger than your smallness. Even though you still may not
be good at everything, if you keep on striving your world will change.
Never run from what you need to learn. Face your ignorance, your
fears, and your doubts. Make mistakes and then learn from them.


"Goals have to be clear, simple, and
in writing. if they aren't in writing
and reviewed daily, they aren't really
goaIs-- they're wishes.."

"The rich invent their
own money. How? They build
companies and sell their
shares to the public."

lOur business plan
should be concise,
easy to read
and free of
grammatical and
typographical
errors. Remember,
the plan is a
representation
of you.

"Who you spend
your time with is
your future.

/
Just to make money is not a strong enough mission.
The mission of a business should be to fill a customer
need. If it fills that need and fills it well, the business will
begin to make money."


In assembling your team, look for people with experience and a track
record, and be willing to pay for outside expertise that could spell the
difference between success and failure. When you don't have the
money up front to hire specialists, consider inviting them to be
members of an advisory board, with the understanding that once
sufficient capital is raised, they will come on board. Another pointer:
Don't put together a business plan that's top-heavy with salaries.
Nothing turns away investors faster than potential business owners
who are raising money in order to reward themselves with a fat
paycheck. Investors want to see your eyes burn with passion and
commitment-not dollar signs.

While assembling your team, you should also be striving to improve
your leadership style. One of the best ways to do this is to volunteer
more. At your church and at work, volunteer to lead projects. In the
typical organization it is hard to find people who actually want to
lead. Most folks hide in the corner hoping no one will call on them.
Step up to bat. While this won't instantly transform you into a great
leader, it will produce feedback on your leadership style. And if you're
mature enough to hone your leadership skills in response, you'll
develop into a great leader.


/
overcome compulsive spending

One great asset of the rich is that they think differently. People who
think the way everyone else does wind up having what everyone else
has. And what is that? Hard work, heavy taxes, liabilities mistaken for
assets, a lifetime of debt, exhaustion and anxiety. Keeping up with

the Joneses can be lifelong drudgery.
People who follow the Rich Dad program don't try to live like the
Joneses; they try to expand their means to buy assets, so that
eventually they'll have income from their assets pay for their
doodads.


// 
Sometimes aspiring business people select advisors and the
relationship doesn't work out. Should a marriage prove not to be
made in heaven, how will you respond? Will you play the blame
game, assigning responsibility for things gone wrong to this advisor
who's proven less than satisfactory? Perhaps, in truth, you didn't plan
carefully enough in the first place and you selected a poor advisor.

****** People who point fingers don't learn from their mistakes. *************

If you're in genuine pursuit of financial freedom, you have to take
responsibility for an advisor who doesn't work out. This doesn't mean
blaming yourself. Blaming yourself is no different than blaming the
advisor. In any event, whose fault it is doesn't matter in the scheme
of things. Rather than blaming, you should simply part ways with the
advisor, admit to yourself that something went awry, and move on.

In a fledgling business enterprise, whenever you fall you have to get
back on your feet, dust yourself off, and forge ahead. You have to be
more like Thomas Edison, who tried 10,000 different experiments
before he finally succeeded in inventing the light bulb. In Edison's
mind, he hadn't failed 10,000 times-instead, he'd discovered 10,000
ways not to invent a light bulb.



Note: Once your monthly passive income exceeds your monthly
expenses, you're infinitely wealthy because your assets are working
for you.

WHAT IS YOUR CASH FLOW PATTERN?

The numbers you've come up with tell a story about your cash flow
pattern. Which of the stories below best describes you?
Poor. If you have the cash flow pattern of the poor, you're using
earned income to pay expenses. There are no assets and no
liabilities. You could own lots of things and owe nothing on them. But
if, in addition to having no debt, you have no passive income or
assets, your cash flow pattern is that of the poor.

Middle class. If you have the cash flow pattern of the middle class,
you're bringing in money primarily through earned income, which
goes to paying expenses and building more liabilities, creating more
expenses. If this is your pattern. you're rewarding yourself with
doodads and building liabilities. This is the toughest pattern to
change. Your cash flow is building more and more debt.

Rich. The cash flow pattern of the rich is to build assets that create
passive income, which in turn pays expenses. The term rich here
refers to the cash flow pattern only. What counts isn't whether
someone makes $5,000 per month or $500,000 per month. What
counts is whether that person's assets pay his or her expenses, with
additional cash going each month to build assets. That is the cash
flow pattern of the rich. Someone who makes $50,000 per month
might have the cash flow pattern of the middle class. It is not the
amount you have, but what you do with it that counts.


Fear: I make $5,000 a month and all I have are
liabilities. How can I build assets?

Fact: If you stop rewarding yourself with doodads,
you'll stop amassing liabilities (bad debt).

Freedom: When you stop amassing liabilities (bad debt),
you'll start building assets.


An educated investor is emotionally neutral when making investment decisions.


Be prepared for anything; don't try to predict what will
happen or when. Investing is a skill, not a science. The Zen
swordsman disciplines body and mind to counter any blow
spontaneously; he does not anticipate the moves of an opponent, for
that impedes his ability to react. Likewise, professional investors
know they cannot control the real estate or stock market, let alone
the global economy. Instead, they train themselves to be financially
intelligent, to think confidently and creatively when opportunities or
problems arise.

Making more money will not solve your problems if cash flow management is your problem.


"Nothing is more tragic than to see people who have sold themselves
short on what's possible for their lives," Rich Dad taught me. They try
to live frugally, scrimping and saving, and they think they're being
financially smart. In truth, they're limiting themselves. Most people
spend their lives imprisoned by financial ignorance. It shows up in
their faces and in their attitudes as they get older. They begin to look
like wild lions trapped in their cages, pacing back and forth while they
mull over what happened to the life they once knew.


DRAFT FINANCIAL PLANS
FOR EACH GOAL

How can you escape this fate? Start by drafting a series of
personalized financial plans-one for security, another for comfort,
and a third for rich. Carefully written plans will give you a clearer
idea of the possibilities ahead. You might be motivated to move
beyond mere security and on to comfort, which would expand your
horizons, or even on to becoming rich, which would give you
unlimited horizons.

At this early stage of the Rich Dad program, of course, you may not
be financially literate enough to draw up detailed plans. That's okay.
The purpose of this exercise isn't to map out your route to financial
freedom-you'll be doing that in Section 3-but rather to get a
general idea of possibilities that you might not otherwise entertain. If
you have a financial advisor, he or she can help you with a rough
outline for your plans. Here's what you do:

• Write up a plan for lifetime financial security. What does security
mean to you personally? The absence of sleepless nights? Being in
a better mood more of the time? And what do you need to do to
achieve your vision of security? If you've decided your first priority
is to be rich, this step might seem mechanical or boring. When you
plan for security, you're planning for a world of not enough. One of
the points of this step is to motivate you to reach beyond a goal that
will only curb your potential.

• Next, write UP a financial plan for lifetime comfort. What does
comfort mean to you? A big house and two cars? A house, a
vacation cottage, and three cars? How can you go about achieving
your level of comfort? Obviously, this plan will be a little more
aggressive than the first one. And it will be less boring because
when you plan for a world of enough, there are more choices open
to you. Your challenge will be to choose.

• Finally, write up a financial plan for becoming rich. This will be your
most aggressive plan and your most exciting, for now you're
anticipating a world of more than enough. You'll be faced with a
myriad of choices, for although you may not be aware of it yet,
opportunities to make money are all around you. As with the
previous plan, your challenge will be coping with the abundance of
possibilities. You don't want to wander through life like a child in a
candy store, so distracted by choice that you never make one. Think
this plan through carefully and thoroughly.

The point of the exercise is to show you that you have choices, more
than you may have ever imagined-and that you need to make
decisions about those choices. Too many people go from job to job or
business to business without getting where they want to be
financially. They wander through life without a plan, and all the while
their most precious asset, time, is dwindling away. This doesn't have
to happen to you.



//
Financial literacy requires proficiency in several areas: economic
history, accounting, taxes, investing, and building businesses. These
are difficult subjects to master, particularly accounting and investing.
But don't let the level of difficulty scare you off. Anyone can master
these subjects, including you. It's a matter of choosing to do so, then
moving through the subject material at a pace that suits your
individual learning style. Becoming financially literate has nothing to
do with how far you got in school. Don't worry if you weren't an A
student. Don't worry if you're currently working as a janitor, or
gardener, or garbage collector, or even if you're unemployed. What
matters is whether you're willing to educate yourself. If so, you can
become a business owner and investor and eventually achieve
financial freedom.


R&D is not research and development but rip-off and duplicate, learn from other that already did what you try to do, MENTORS even if you have to pay.

What I Learned Reading 50 Books on Money

Rich is not a measurement of money it's a measurement of quality of life and the freedom that you have. 

Rich people understand 2 things:
	They don't trade their time for money like persons with regular jobs. They make their money make more money.

	They don't pay debt, they own debt. For example investing in the stock market, your are lending your money 
to a company witch uses that money to make more money and pays you at a later date, etc..

	Another example is taking mortgage on a property and renting out that property for positive cash flow and 
profit. You own the debt but the house makes you money trough rent.


The lawyer or the medic that needs to pay time and money to go to college, get the skills etc. will have to pay his debts by working, if he doesn't work he doesn't get paid. These people have money but they are not rich. 

******* It's okay if you do what you like but it will feel like a prison if you don't. *****************

"I had two goals, wake up every day and do something I love and earn 1500$ to be free financially. This wouldn't let me travel the world but it will set me free to focus on what I want. And that was what I wanted, to be free. After reading all these books on money I immediately set out to make as many passive incomes as I could."

Build many separate streams of income. 

You are an amalgamation of the 6 people close to you.
	Think about the people in college, high school, middle school your interests habits and goals probably 
		aligned.
	Be very mindful of who you have in your life and how much time you spend with them, and if their goals 
		line up with yours.

	All these successful people that I watched, all built teams around them to succeed. It's a common fallacy 	  to believe that someone achieved everything by themselves.

	Think about all the famous bands that split up, usually it did not go well for them.

Never say you can't afford it, ask how you can afford it, or why you can or can't afford it.
A question opens the mind a statement closes the mind and you become what you say.



//
In school the teachers teach stuff they themselves don't practice.
The rich dad became rich because his dad died when he was 13, he dropped out of school to take care of his dads business. His teachers became the accountant, the bookkeeper etc.. Real teachers that practice their profession.

In life you have to find a real teacher. A fake teacher is someone that doesn't do what they teach. Real teacher do what they teach, accountants, attorneys etc..


Fail, learn from failure that's real life. Always winning is not reality.


// Should You Specialize or Be a Generalist? | Tim Ferriss
If you specialize to become a basketball player you need to be in 0.01% of population to do financially well. 
If you combine two skill that are valuable but more valuable together for ex. computer science with law degree, or finance or mathematics with public speaking etc.. You have an automatic advantage.

You don't learn a thousand skills and be nothing, a few skills that can be effectively combined.

Warren Buffet said one the most useful skill he learned was public speaking and writing, so that he can share his ideas more effectively.

Recommendation public speaking, writing and negotiating.

Skill winning even if I fail.
Let's say you start a new project, it may fail but you should put focus on the skills and relationships that will persist after.
Relationships, good people that you met, skills(marketable skills).



One thing is certain: When you do set out to work for yourself, you'll
need more than just friends and family-you'll need a team of
professional advisors. One secret of the rich is their humility. They
surround themselves with people who know more than they do. They
surround themselves with experts_ Depending on the nature of the
business you build or the investments you make, your team could
include a mortgage banker, an intellectual property lawyer, a
corporate lawyer, an accountant, an insurance agent, a tax strategist,
a stockbroker, or a score of others. Bear in mind that the team
list will constantly change along with the strategies and plans for
your business.


This is a major difference between the left side and the right side of
the CASHFLOW Quadrant: The right side gives you time. And time
is freedom-freedom to make more money, to give it away, and to be
with your loved ones. The path to freedom is open to you. You can
be a worker bee, buzzing around till the end of your days, barely
noticing those around you, or you can be a free spirit, with plenty
of time to seize the day and tend to your family. Freedom is yours
for the taking.


There is gold everywhere.
Most people aren't
trained to see it."


A goal is different
from a wish. IOU
may wish to be
rich, but that
doesn't mean you've
ever taken any
practical steps to
make this wish
come true.


By now you're getting the gist of Rich Dad's thinking and
no doubt you're anxious to get started. Getting
started requires two actions. First, you have to decide
what your general financial goal is. Do you want to
be secure? Comfortable? Or rich? The answer to this question is
important because it will determine which quadrant you stay in or
enter, and how you go about making money inside that quadrant.
Second, you have to become financially literate so that you learn
to think like the rich.


What is your financial goal? To be secure, comfortable, or rich? Bear
in mind that a goal is different from a wish. You may wish to be rich,
but that doesn't mean you've ever taken any practical steps to make
it come true. If you've ever earned enough money to put some aside,
like most people, you've probably invested it with an eye toward
security, since you can't imagine yourself ever getting rich.

Be honest with yourself. If you had to list the three choices in order
of priority-as goals rather than just wishes-you'd probably put
security at the top of the list, comfort in the middle, and wealth
at the bottom. Like most people, you probably want, if you don't
already have, a job with a steady paycheck and with good health
and retirement benefits. Next you'd like a house, a car, and enough
money for extras like vacations. Then, of course, YOU'd like to be
rich, but that's only something that will happen if you "get lucky." Or
so you think.

"Most people dream of becoming rich, but it isn't their first choice,"
Rich Dad said. That's because the effort and uncertainty of becoming
rich disturb them, and they seek refuge in the easier goals of security
or comfort. People who make security and comfort their first and
second choices are often seeking a single hot investment tip, a
simple, risk-free way of getting rich quick. Some people do get rich
on one lucky investment, but all too frequently the money they amass
is later lost.


In today's fast changing
world,
its not so much
what you learn
that counts, but
how fast you
learn it.



POINT 6: MASTER ONE FORMULA AND THEN GO
ON TO THE NEXT

To make bread, the baker follows a recipe. The same is true for
making money.

As I've said, most people follow one basic formula for making money:
Get a job and a steady paycheck. As you've probably guessed by
now, however, there are other, much more lucrative formulas out
there, if you're willing to make the effort to find and study them.

When I was in my twenties, I took a weekend class on how to buy
real estate foreclosures. I learned a formula, which was the easy
part. The hard part, of course, was having the discipline to study the
formula and implement what I'd learned. It helped to recite my deep seated
reasons for wanting to get rich. They became the mantra that
kept me focused, and over the next three years I spent my spare
time mastering the formula for buying foreclosures. Then I put what
I'd learned into practice. It earned me several million dollars.

Today, I've gone on to master other formulas. Each one I've applied
has reaped a profit. In today's fast-changing world, it's not so much
what you learn that counts, but how fast you learn it.


POINT 7: PAY YOURSELF FIRST

To get rich you must take control of your finances, and that requires
discipline. What's the sense of making money and investing it only to
lose it? By discipline, I mean you have to learn how to pay yourself
first-even before you pay your bills. Why? Because when you pay
everyone else first, there is often nothing left for you.

I'm not saying you should pay yourself first so you can run out and
spend your money on "ego" toys like a new car, a new outfit, or a
cruise. Paying yourself first means using the money for investments
in the B or I quadrant. Don't you want your money to start earning
you more money? Then go ahead: Pay yourself first, invest the
money, and let your creditors' yelling spur you to find new ways to
expand your income.

Don't get me wrong. I'm not suggesting that you avoid paying your
bills. You should just know that it's not financially intelligent to cave in
to creditor pressure and dip into your investments in order to pay
them. How can you pay yourself first without getting into a credit rut?
First, keep your personal expenses low. Don't buy yourself toys until
the habit of paying yourself first has built up enough assets for you to
afford them. Second, when you come up short, don't dip into your
investments to payoff your creditors. Look at the pressure they're
applying as a source of inspiration; it will force your financial genius
to come up with new ways of making money. When your genius pulls
through, then pay your bills. As you start to build assets, you'll see
that the income from your assets will allow you to pay for your
personal expenses and you will have expanded your means so you
can live the lifestyle you desire.


Fear I can't pay myself first-that would ruin my credit

Fact If you're disciplined, you can pay yourself first
without ruining your credit.The trick is to keep
your personal expenses low. If you're under
pressure from creditors, the pressure will
actually inspire you to come up with new ways of
making money.

Freedom Start paying yourself first today, and you'll get
into a lifelong habit of building assets


POINT 8: GET SOMETHING FOR FREE

When you make an investment, you should first ask how long your
money will be tied up. Second, you should ask what you can expect
in the way of return on investment.

Here's an example of how return on investment can work: Several
years ago I found a small condominium a few blocks from my home
that was in foreclosure. The bank wanted $60,000 for it. I submitted a
bid for $50,000 in cash, which the bank quickly accepted. Most
investors would say, weren't you tying up a lot of cash? Wouldn't you
have been better off getting a loan? Not in this case. My investment
company now uses the condominium as a $2,500-a-month vacation
rental during the winter, when the "snowbirds" come to Arizona.

During the off-season, the unit rents for a $1,000 a month. I had my
money back in about three years. Now I own this asset, which pumps
money out for me, month in and month out.
With stock investing, I've also often gotten a good return on
investment. When my broker feels that a company is set to make a
move that will add value to its stock, he'll call and recommend that I
buy a sizable amount of that stock. I'll park my money there for a
week to a month while the stock price rises, then I'll pull the initial
amount out and stop worrying about the fluctuations of the market
because my seed money is back and ready to buy another asset. So
my money goes in and then it comes out, and I own an asset that
was technically free.

On everyone of your investments, whether it's a rental condo, a
stock, or something else, you should end up with something for free.
That's financial intelligence.

POINT 9: DON'T BUY LUXURIES WITH CREDIT

In our culture of consumer temptation and easy credit, too many
people borrow money rather than create it to buy the luxuries they
desire. Borrowing is easier in the short term but harder in the long
term. If you've fallen into the habit of buying on credit, you're not
alone. But just because so many other people engage in this practice
doesn't mean you should. The earlier you train yourself to be a
master of money, the better.


Before you ever buy luxuries, use what money you have to make
more money. Let's say 100 people were given $10,000 at the start of
the year. Here's my opinion of what those 100 people would do with
their money by the end of the year:

• Eighty would have nothing left. In fact, many would have created
debt by making down payments on luxury items such as sports
cars and home entertainment systems.
• Sixteen would have increased that $10,000 by 5 to 10 percent.
• Four would have increased it to $20,000 or more.

Which group would you be in? If it's either of the first two, then read
on, and don't forget this point: Use the desire to consume not to buy,
but rather to inspire your financial genius to invest. Later, when
you've built enough assets, you can use the income from those
assets to buy the luxuries you crave. In this way, instead of being a
slave to money, you'll be the master of it.



Middle Class
• Job security is key.
• Owning a home is my goal.
• Saving money is the best
I can do.
• The rich are. greedy



Rich
• Building a business is key.
• Owning an apartment building
is my goal.
• Investing money is the best
I can do.
• The rich are generous.


We knew that building a business was not the easy path, but we also
knew that we could do it. We chose to build an education company.
That company eventually generated the funds that allowed us to
invest in real estate. It was the passive income generated from our
real estate that allowed us to become financially free. Today we are
building CASHFLOW Technologies, Inc., with our partner Sharon
Lechter. Funds from the success of CASHFLOW Technologies are
allowing us to invest in more real estate, other businesses, and the
Foundation for Financial Literacy. Giving back should be an
important part of any financial plan to be rich.


"The poor and the middle class turn
cash into trash, or liabilities.
Meanwhile, the upper class buys
things like stocks, real estate, and
businesses, turning cash into assets."


Time is money and you
have to
seize the day.


an economic
system built on fiat
currency is a house
of cards."


"My banker has
never asked me for
my report card.
He's only asked me
for my financial
statement. Your
financial statement
is your report card
for life·


"Rich people
acquire assets.
Middle class people
acquire liabilities
that they think are
assets. "


Utilizing the
corporation is one
of the secrets of the
rich: Own
nothing, but
control
everything. "




The
B-I TRIANGLE

Anyone can start a company, yet how many can start a
company that survives and thrives? Anyone can
purchase real estate, yet how many know how to
analyze a property or how to structure the purchase to
take advantage of the tax savings available for real estate? The key
to business success in either business development or real estate
lies in the so-called business-investor triangle, or B-I triangle.


Take away anyone side of a triangle, and what do you have? An
unstable angle. Take away anyone side of the B-1 triangle and what
do you have? A company doomed to failure. There are three sides to
the B-1 triangle: mission, teamwork, and leadership. Each side is
critical to the stability and long-term success of the business.

'just to make
money is not a
strong enough
mission. The
mission of a
business should be
to fill the
customer's need.."

THE MISSION
At the base of the triangle is its most important component: the
mission. As the world market becomes ever more glutted with
products and competition becomes increasingly fierce. the
businesses that thrive will be those that use their mission as their
beacon.


What does mission mean? In truth, it is an intangible concept that, in
the hands of a devoted entrepreneur, can take on spiritual overtones.
The best way to define mission is by example. Henry Ford's
mission-one he fulfilled with messianic fervor-was to make the
automobile available to the masses. Hence his mission statement,
"Democratize the automobile." It was Ford's ability to maintain his
focus on this mission that helped fuel his financial success. Or
consider the case of Johnson & Johnson. Back in 1890, the brothers
Johnson invented a first-aid kit for railroad workers who were getting
cut up as they laid tracks across the United States. For over a
century the company has remained true to its original mission, and
today the name Johnson & Johnson remains synonymous with on site
first aid.

In the case of both Ford and Johnson & Johnson, the mission came
first, not the lure of profits. Too many would-be business owners are
driven by the desire for profit alone. Unfortunately, money alone won't
provide the entrepreneur with sufficient stamina to weather the
storms his or her young company will inevitably face. A glaring
example is the owner who becomes an instant millionaire by taking
the company public through an initial public offering (IPO)-then
watches as the company falls apart. The problem with the profit-only
mission is that it doesn't take into account customer need. After all,
without customers there can be no profits. The mission of a business
should be to meet customer need by providing a product or service.
If customers are well satisfied, then profits will follow.


A mission that serves customers first, and serves them well, will:
• Keep the entrepreneurial flame alive
• Serve as a beacon in the early years
• Eventually reap profits
... Keep your business focused



"If the mission is
clear and strong,
the business will
weather the trials
every business goes
through during its
first ten years.
When a business
gets big and it
forgets its mission
... the business
begins to die


THE CUSTOMER AS MISSION

The story of Levi Strauss suggests the importance of defining a
mission with customers-rather than profits-in mind. During the
Gold Rush. Strauss. a 20-year-old Bavarian immigrant, boarded
a ship for San Francisco with hopes of selling dry goods to
prospectors. Included in his stock was a roll of rough canvas for
tents and wagon covers.When Strauss landed on the West
Coast he met a prospector.

"You should be selling pants," said the prospector, dubiously
eyeing the roll of canvas.

''Why pants?" asked the would-be merchant.

"Because pants aren't worth a damn up in the diggins," came
the reply.

So Strauss took the roll of canvas to a tailor and had him sew it
into pants for his new acquaintance, giving birth to levi's.
Because of Strauss's primary commitment to customer
satisfaction, eventually the profits rolled in and today his casual
denim pants are worn the world over.


Your mission may be obvious if you're building a business to provide
a specific product or service. If your business is to own real estate,
you still have a mission. It may be to build assets for your family, or it
may be to provide housing to your tenants. If you stay focused on
your mission and pay attention to your customers' or tenants' needs,
you'll fulfill your mission.


TEAMWORK REAPS PROFITS
In the old days employees were considered "workers," By the
1980s a shift in attitude-and language-had taken place
in the halls of corporate America. More and more, successful
companies began to treat their people as part of a team. At
McDonald's employees became known as "crew members," at
the Walt Disney Company, they were now "hosts," and at J. C.
Penney, "associates." These companies weren't just paying lip
service to the concept of teamwork-they gave it life, and
corporate profits responded.


Solo player E B Team player
solo player S I Team player

Those in the E and S quadrants tend to be solo players and want to
do things on their own. If they do happen to pay for specialist advice,
it may be after much hesitation and out of their own sweat and blood.
Those in the B and I quadrants, however, do not hesitate to hire
professionals because the entire B-1 triangle is paying for their
services. Those in the B and I quadrants have shed the common
notion that building a business is risky. To these team players, it is
riskier not to build a business. If your business is real estate, your
team will include legal and tax advisors as well as a real estate agent
or broker and an insurance agent. You may also want a property
manager on your team.

Of course, specialists are just one of several groups that make up the
larger business team. A successful team-driven business depends on
investors, owners, employees, and specialists.

The investors fund the company. The owners work with the
employees to make the business grow and bring a return on the
original investment. The employees serve as an extension of the
owners and represent the business to customers. And all the while,
the specialists help the owners keep the business moving in the right
direction.



A leader's job is to
bring out the best
in people, not to be
the best person.


To force good
ideas to bubble up
within {your
organization}, you
must listen to
what your
associates are
trying to tell you




LEADERSHIP
To keep the company focused on the mission, and the company's
different personnel working as a team, you need leadership-the
third and final side of the 8-1 triangle.

A leader's job is to
bring out the best
in people, not to be
the best person.


Though leaders come in all different shapes and sizes, they have
certain intangible qualities in common. A true leader is part

• Visionary
• Cheerleader
• Pit boss
• Listener


As visionary, the leader conceives the mission and keeps all eyes
focused on it. As cheerleader, he or she heralds the successes of the
team as it strives to fulfill the mission. And as pit boss, this person
makes the tough calls regarding issues that distract the team from its
mission. The leader is able to take decisive action while focusing and
inspiring the troops.


True leaders aren't born, they're made. They have the ability to listen,
and by listening, they gain invaluable feedback from the team.
Feedback helps them correct what they're doing wrong and hone
their leadership skills. It stands to reason that leaders are humble-s
they know their advisors have much to teach. And leaders, as any
successful military commander knows, trust their team. The person
who thinks he or she is the smartest person on the team isn't a true
leader; this person has no faith in the others and has never bothered
to develop leadership skills. It is the person willing to listen and learn
who has the makings of a great leader.


''All great leaders
are great public
speakers. "


"Investing is
a plan, not a product
or procedure."



"Financial
intelligence is the
ability to convert
cash or labor into
assets that provide
cash flow. "


'An investors most
important tool
is information.
Without good,
solid information,
stock investing
becomes just
guesswork


"It is not possible
to predict the
market, but it is
important that we
be prepared
for whichever
direction it
decides to go.



Many small business owners believe they have a B business when
what they really have is an S business. What's the difference? The Bbusiness
owner owns a system, while the S-business owner owns a
job. If an owner can leave a business for a year and come back to a
stronger and more profitable operation, he or she is a
B-business owner.



The best network marketing companies offer not only
quality products but also long-term educational programs that
hone leadership, salesmanship and communication skills, helping
gung-ho investors build a strong enough revenue base to
generate passive income.


As Rich Dad said, "Business is a team sport." Consult your
advisors and go over these calculations with them when you are
considering an investment. If you try to analyze them on your own,
you are still operating from the left side of the Quadrant. Your
advisors may know additional information about the company or its
industry. The more you know, and the more advice you receive from
your advisors, the better prepared you will be for making an
investment decision.


"Disability and
death have sent
more than one
business and
financial empire
crashing down.
Insurance buffers
thefall."



Take notes in the margins of
your binder, highlighting pointers that are especially relevant to your
situation. As you did in the last section, go at your own pace. And
most important, don't give up. Whenever fear or doubt blocks your
path, circle around these obstacles and continue on. You'll find that
with every step you take, your confidence grows along with your
assets. Remember, the reward is not only the freedom that money
buys but also the confidence you gain in yourself-for they are really
one and the same.



To calculate your total earned income, look at the receipts for bills
you've submitted to customers or clients over the past month. Is this
a typical month for your business? If not, it may be better to add up
four months' worth of receipts, then divide by four (or better yet, add
up a whole year's worth and divide by 12). By giving you an average
of your monthly receipts, this will more accurately reflect the income
you record on your financial statement. Log in the monthly average
next to "Job and Self-Employment" on your financial statement.


"For each liability
you have, such as
a car loan or a,
mortgage, you re
an employee of the
institution or
person lending you
the money.




"The reason so
many people
struggle financially
is because every
time they make
more money, they
increase their taxes
and their debt. "

Most people don't
prepare personal
financial
statements-they
just try to balance
their checkbooks.
So congratulate
yourself lou are
now aheadofmost
ofyour peers.


"Financial intelligence isn't measured by
how much money you make, but how much money you
keep, and how hard that money works fOr you."


RECORDKEEPING:
A NECESSARY EVIL

The value of keeping good financial records is that they'll help you
track your cash flow, and you'll know exactly where to find what you
need as you make future financial decisions, whether it's choosing
investments, preparing taxes, or building your own business.
Organizing your records may seem like a lot of boring work, but
remember, it's going to help you reach your destination. A little time
spent now can save you a lot of time and headaches later!

Once you develop the habit of keeping records, you'll see that
tracking personal expenses is pretty simple and one of the smartest
things you can do. By capturing your expenses while they're still fresh
in your mind, you'll be assured of claiming all legitimate tax
deductions, no matter how small. These deductions can add up over
the course of years and save you real money at tax time. Keeping
track as you go will also save you an enormous amount of time and
trouble when you're getting ready to prepare your tax return. And if
you're ever audited by the IRS or your state government, accurate
records are what you'll rely on most to back you up. Most important,
your records will tell you if your assets are creating income for you,
and how much.

One of the tricks of recordkeeping is knowing what to hold on to and
what to throwaway. Not every pay stub, bank statement, or invoice is
going to reveal your financial circumstances or show you the
direction in which you're headed. To get your true financial bearings,
you'll have to collect and examine the right records. It doesn't do you
much good to study a street map of Detroit if you happen to be lost
in Pittsburgh.

There are four broad categories of records you should keep: income,
expenses, tax records, and miscellaneous. Perhaps you're already
saving many of these records now. but you haven't taken the time to
organize them properly.


Knowledge is power, knowledge reduces fear.


It isn't how much money you make that counts, it's how much you can keep.


Please note that in the Rich Dad program, wealth is measured in
time, not money. (You should have your money working for you so
you don't have to spend all your time working for money.)


It doesn't matter
how much money
you make,
but how your
money flows


How Cindy did. First Cindy contacted the local university to see if it
offered any free programs for small businesses. She was referred to
the Small Business Administration (SBA) branch on the university
grounds. Cindy met with a representative during her lunch hour and
in that short time learned about the free resources available, many of
them on the Internet. Cindy discovered that she could use the
computer system at the library to rasaarch other resources. MOst
importantly, she found out about the Self-Employment Trust. This
trust, available in most states, gives free training to low-income
people who want to start a business. The course includes basic
business accounting, recordkeeping, rnarketinq, and business
planning. It's tough-and to graduate you have to produce a wellthought-
out. developed business plan approved by your peers.


Its not the
numbers, but what
the numbers are
telling you. It's not
the words, but the
story the words are
telling you


Note: Once your monthly passive income exceeds your monthly
expenses, you're infinitely wealthy because your assets are working
for you.


The primary reason most people have money problems
is that in school they were never taught cash flow
management. Without this training, they wind up
working harder and harder in the belief that making
more money will solve their problems. Unfortunately, more money
often just sends people deeper into debt More money won't solve
problems if cash flow management is the problem.
As CEO of the business of your life, you've created a personal
financial statement and analyzed it. The next step is to take control of
your cash flow.


For many people,
travel and
entertainment are
a doodad
black hole


Then there's travel and entertainment, a doodad black hole for many
people. How can you stop your money from getting sucked away?
• Don't take a vacation until you have the money to pay for it.
• Shop for discount airfares-or drive.
• Pump your own gasoline.
• Cut back on meals out, whether they're eaten at a four-star
restaurant or your local fast food outlet.
• If you're a movie lover, go to a matinee instead of an evening
show, and bypass the concession stand. Better yet, rent a video.
• Resign from the country club. Play on public golf courses, and join
the local YMCA if you want to use exercise equipment or a
swimming pool. Trim your budget further by walking or jogging.


When it comes to wise budgeting, household expenses are another
area ripe for reining in. The following ideas are meant to inspire you
only-there are dozens of other ways to cut:
• Turn the thermostat down and the lights off.
• Winterize your house from top to bottom, insulating pipes, drafty
windows, crawl spaces, and other energy-guzzling areas.
• Cut back on telephone or Internet service fees by shopping
around. Curb your cell phone use.
• Shop for lower-cost insurance and raise your deductible.
• Don't run the dishwasher unless it's full.
• Don't water your lawn every day.
• Cut the grass yourself.


"There's a good
reason it's called
disposable income:
most people throw
their extra money
away. That's
buying doodads!
How will tIle assets
ever grow.;;"



"Every time
someone lends you
money. you become
his employee
because your debt
becomes an asset in
his asset column
and a liability in
your liability
coIumn.



''Every liability
you have
is someone
else's asset. "



Credit cards can be wonderful bookkeeping tools, particularly if you
use one credit card for business purposes and another for personal
use. But beware-credit cards are only useful if you payoff the total
balance due each month, thereby eliminating interest charges. One
reason many people get mired in debt is that credit card companies
make it so easy. Every day, it seems, an offer for a new card arrives
in the mail, a current creditor increases your limit, or a store grants
"instant" credit. Credit is a consumer's dream-and soon-to-be
nightmare. What can you do? Simple: Don't get sucked in.



Clearly, getting out of debt requires credit savvy. Examine the terms
of your credit card agreement. If you don't like what you see, call the
company And see if it will lower its rate to keep you on board. If not,
start looking for a better card. When you find one with a lower APR,
make sure it isn't a temporary promotional offer. Also make sure
there aren't any transfer fees. You don't want to incur debt to
consolidate debt.


"Think of every dollar in your asset column as an
employee who works hard for you so you don't have to
work so hard Once you put a dollar in your asset
column, never take it out. n


If you're a homeowner and your report is excellent, find out whether
you're receiving the best possible mortgage rate. Nationwide,
homeowners spend $100 million more than necessary each year
because they don't know they qualify for lower interest.


it's time to review your collateral-backed debt. Don't let the word
collateral fool you. On Rich Dad's balance sheet a good debt is a
collateral-backed debt-a liability, loaned to you for an asset that
generates income. As long as your asset generates positive cash
flow, which means your asset is paying for the related debt, it is good
debt. Consider reducing or eliminating all bad debt, even if it is
secured.



((Take
responsibility for
your actions.
Avoid bankruptcy
by finding ways
to increase
your income,
renegotiate your
debts, and payoff
your debts, even if
it takes years.





''Investing is less
risky than being
an employee.
Skilled investors
are in control of
their investments;
employees are
under the control
of their
employers.



'1nvesting isn't
risky; not being in
control is risky. »


"The reason most
average investors
lose money is
because it is often
easy to invest in an
asset but difficult
to get out. }Our
exit strategy is
often more
important than
your entry
strategy.



BONDS
The average investor often buys bonds as part of an overall plan for
security and comfort. While bonds are generally considered safe
investments, you can still lose money with them. Keep in mind the
seesaw effect of interest rates and value: If interest rates rise, the
value of your bonds goes down, and vice versa. Keep in mind, too,
that over time inflation can cause the value of the fixed-rate interest
payment as well as the principal to erode. The rich often use bonds
as part of their overall investment strategy. In a volatile stock market
they may use bonds to "park" their money until it is time to re-enter
the market (usually when everyone else is exiting).
If after doinq your homework you decide to buy bonds as part of your
comfort/security portfolio, you should review the following tips before
making your first purchase.


Avoidfunds with high fees and expenses. Closely examine the fees
and expenses laid out in the prospectus. You want to minimize the
amount you pay over and above your investment. Compare the
operating expenses of any funds you're researching and avoid those
with high figures. Management fees range anywhere from 1 to 5
percent, which over time can significantly reduce capital gains. In
some cases, you may be required to pay a load, or commission.
when you buy or sell shares. You'll recall that a front-end load is a
commission charged at the time of purchase. A back-end load is
charged if you sell your shares before a specific period has elapsed.
A level load is a flat annual fee. In general, you're better off looking
for no-load funds. Don't forget to read the fine print; footnotes may
outline additional fees or expenses.



WHAT TO DO WHEN BUYING MUTUAL FUNDS
• Pick funds that have a proven track record and a manager who has
been around for more than five years.
• Pick funds that meet your investment objectives and risk tolerance.
• Select no-load funds, all other things being equal. If you're interested
in a load fund, make sure its performance is worth the fee.
• Invest primarily in equity (stock) funds if you want growth.
• If you're comfortable bypassing a securities dealer, buy shares
directly from the fund or bank to avoid paying sales charges.
Discount brokers offer reduced sales charges.
• Invest in four or five funds for diversification.


A GOOD DEAL THAT COULD BANKRUPT YOU

Diane Kennedy, CPA and Rich Dad Advisor, tells the story of one
of her former clients, Joe. A new freeway interchange was slated
for construction within three years, and Joe recognized that the
land adjacent to it was much cheaper than it would be three
years down the road. So he purchased one acre for $175,000.
Three years later the property had climbed in price to $575,000.
What a great deal for Joe, you might say! Sadly, no. Joe had
bought the property with a high-interest bank loan, and six
months before the interchange was completed and the property
went up in value, he went bankrupt and lost the property. Raw
land isn't an asset until it sells and you receive cash that you can
turn into passive income. Meanwhile, it's a liability. Joe hadn't
counted on that liability. He didn't have the resources to cover the
loan payments and other costs. Someone else bought the
property during a bargain-basement foreclosure sale. A great
deal for one person can be a bad deal for someone else.


THE DOUBLE-EDGED SWORD OF
DEFERRED MAINTENANCE

DAferred maintenance refers to maintenance that previous owners of
a property have neglected. They have "deferred" upkeep to the future.
Deferred maintenance can run the gamut from simple painting and
yard work to large projects such as a new roof or furnace. Some of
the best real estate opportunities are found where deferred
maintenance is cosmetic and relatively inexpensive. A little hit of paint
can make a house look new again. Replacing a roof or a furnace,
however, can be expensive and have little perceived value for a
prospective buyer. Sometimes deferred maintenance will work in your
favor-but not always. Make sure you're on the right side of the deal!


USE YOUR TEAM TO EVALUATE YOUR PROPERTY
The best money you ever spend on a real estate purchase may
very well be the money you spend for a professional inspection.
A professional inspector will check your property for any potential
problems such as maintenance that the previous owner has put
off or safety code violations. The inspector will prepare a
"condition report" that you can then present to the seller, who
may fix the problems or actually reduce the cost of the house to
cover the repair costs. Don't be afraid to ask!



GAIN A COMPETITIVE EDGE
Fortune, as they say, favors the prepared mind. A letter from a
lender stating that you are pre-qualified or pre-approved for a
mortgage will increase your negotiating power with sellers. What
do these terms mean? When you're pre-qualineo, the lender
attests to the amount of mortgage you can carry yet stops short
of approving you for financing. When you're pre-approved, the
lender commits to providlnq a mortgage up to a specified limit. If
you're in a seller's market, pre-approval is vital to beating out tile
competition.


Do what the rich do
Fear
I'll never come up with enough cash for a down
payment on rental real estate.

Fact
There are many ways to obtain a down payment.
For example, you might be able to take out an
equity loan on your home, or obtain seller
financing, or borrow from your life insurance
policy. If the property is a wise investment, the
money should be easy to find.

Freedom
Once you've found a vehicle to finance a down
payment, you'll start putting other people's cash
to work for you.


// 
Sometimes aspiring business people select advisors and the
relationship doesn't work out. Should a marriage prove not to be
made in heaven, how will you respond? Will you play the blame
game, assigning responsibility for things gone wrong to this advisor
who's proven less than satisfactory? Perhaps, in truth, you didn't plan
carefully enough in the first place and you selected a poor advisor.

****** People who point fingers don't learn from their mistakes. *************

If you're in genuine pursuit of financial freedom, you have to take
responsibility for an advisor who doesn't work out. This doesn't mean
blaming yourself. Blaming yourself is no different than blaming the
advisor. In any event, whose fault it is doesn't matter in the scheme
of things. Rather than blaming, you should simply part ways with the
advisor, admit to yourself that something went awry, and move on.

In a fledgling business enterprise, whenever you fall you have to get
back on your feet, dust yourself off, and forge ahead. You have to be
more like Thomas Edison, who tried 10,000 different experiments
before he finally succeeded in inventing the light bulb. In Edison's
mind, he hadn't failed 10,000 times-instead, he'd discovered 10,000
ways not to invent a light bulb.



Fear: I've just hired all these expensive advisors. If
one of them screws up, it could ruin me.

Fact: Sometimes an advisor won't meet your needs.
It's best to dismiss any advisors with whom
you're dissatisfied and then move on, without
becoming mired in the blame game.

Freedom: Those who learn from their mistakes are the
most likely to achieve financial freedom.



Whatever source of capital you find (if you're fortunate enough to find
it), and whichever type of financing you choose (if you have the
luxury of choice), don't proceed with the funding scheme until you've
sought the help of a professional investment advisor and an attorney.
It is the business owner's job to make the business work, not to be
an expert on all financial minutiae. Find good advisors and use them

NOW THAT YOU'RE IN THE B QUADRANT...
At long last, after all your careful legwork, you've crossed the bridge
into the R quadrant. Congratulations! Remember, moving from the
left side to the right side of the CASHFLOW Quadrant isn't like
changing jobs or professions. It involves a change at the very core of
you-who you are, how you think, and how you look at the world.
The change is as profound as the age-old story of the caterpillar
becoming a butterfly. In the old days you may have thought like an S
quadrant type, who doesn't like to delegate work because no one
else can do it better. Now, in the B quadrant. you have a new motto:
Why do it all myself when I can hire other people to help me do it?
Just because you've realized that business is a team sport doesn't
mean you can walk away from your work entirely. Now that you've set
up a business, you have to mind it.


«When you move into the B quadrant, .you change from an
independent operator to a teamplayer

"In the world of
business capital, money
follows management."



But while it's important to
proceed at your own pace, don't use learning as an excuse to
procrastinate. Rich Dad would tell you that the best teacher of all
is experience. Don't be afraid to make mistakes. Make a mistake,
learn from it and go out and try again. You'll never master a
financial skill or strategy until you've actually put it to use.
Not everyone will start his or her own business, let alone pursue
the course of an ultimate investor. It's taken me years to gather
the know-how and courage to scale those heights. No matter what
you choose to do, though, you'll be better off tomorrow for having
used this program inspired by Rich Dad. If the only change you
make is to think twice about buying assets instead of doodads,
you'll gain more control of your cash flow and thereby increase
your financial options. If you can do that much, you know you can
do much more. Go ahead, seize the opportunities out there.
Choose to be rich!














































