WordCloud generator terms to add in your resume.

What whould I have to do to be successful around here .


// 5 Tips to OVERCOME Interview NERVES! (How to NOT be NERVOUS in a Job Interview!)
1. Treat it as a meeting between You and potential Employer
	NOT AN INTERVIEW


2. Research the company
	Tell me what you know about our company ?

	Go online find what they sell what they do, also social media(LINKEDIN also), historical information(When did they start who owns the company)


3. Download job description(Job description is the blueprint the hiring manager/employer is looking for)
	Read it and notice the KEY REQUIREMENTS OF THE ROLE

	Be prepared for question from job description.

	If the job description requires excellent customer service They will ask
	
	"Tell when you provided excellent customer service."


4. First question or among first on Interview is going to be "Tell me about yourself."

	Go see separate video so you can answer


5. Do you have any questions ?

	Ask 3-4 questions focused on the company.

	1. What advice would you give for a successful candidate who wants to do a really good job.

		basically

	 What does it take to be successful here ?


	 2. What's the culture here within this company.

	 3. What challenges are your company facing right now. How can I help you overcome them.

	 4. What would you need me to concentrate on in the role within 30 days of starting.



// How to introduce yourself
8 best word for introduction

Cost-Conscious
	Means you use company supplies and resources carefully to save money.

Team Player
	You fit quickly into a new team, support your coworkers, and focus on team goal

Problem-Solver
	You take ownership of difficult challenges instead of ignoring them.

Adaptable
	You are prepared to work additional hours and complete tasks outside your job description.

Resilient
	You remain calm in difficult situation and focus on achieving a positive outcome. 

Results-Driven
	Everything you do at work is centered on achieving great things for your employer.
	How can I achieve a positive outcome for my employer in my work.

Continuous Improvement
	You have the mindset that there is always something to learn.

Attention to detail Skills
	You don't make foolish mistakes. Instead, your work is to a high standard.


Ma numesc Bogatean Razvan, sunt dispus sa invat sa devin un membru productiv al echipei voastre.























