// Small habits that create cascading effects
Working out daily, a walk, meditation. You don't need to expect things from them, they trickle good things.

// 5 mental habits

1. Reflect on failures with gratitude. Refrain setbacks in positive light. Be grateful for the experience you've gained

2. Look to make changes for the better, constantly search for improvement.

3. Learn to make calculated risks. Do research before taking risks. 

4. Stop comparing yourself with others. The only person to concern about is yourself

5. Learn to cooperate with others. Let go of pride and seek collaboration.


// Make the process of learning enjoyable.
*******
Make sure that you're very clear about what specifically is stopping you from being motivated. Isolate the problem, where am I motivated, where am I not motivated, and why.

So that you can make the process of learning motivating, even if what you are studying is not motivating.

// Love and kindness motivation. 
Gratitude practice not necessary motivation => oxytocin, serotonin

If you are in love dopamine is released at first. But if you are with that person for a long time, you no longer release dopamine. You need to reset, take a break, miss that person than reunite.

You need to learn how to reset, deliberate decompression.

// 2.0 YOU
Levels of emotions

Elevated emotions:
Love, freedom, peace, Aliveness
Courage, Willingness

Survival emotions:
Anger, Hate, Fear, Pride
Lust, Shame, Guilt

// Motivation
If you lose motivation when you learn something switch to learning something else. 
Basically use fluctuating motivation to switch to another project. 
You are bored of math learn, learn history etc.

Anxiousness comes and goes, when you have self doubt don't act on it, allow it to pass. When you have motivation act on it.

Use 2 min rule to create motivation.
Use daily task to create momentum for bigger tasks.


https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gEKo3jINwYg&ab_channel=CajunKoiAcademy

// Learn to get a spike of dopamine from the activity itself, not by doing something before or after that gives you dopamine.

// Learn by teaching. Explain it in simple terms. Imagine you are asked questions, you ask yourself, questions.

// If you have a place to reach, just reverse the problem. Work your way from there to where you are. For example you want to be as popular as someone famous on youtube, study how they did it.

// If you find yourself procrastinating

Eliminate every other distraction besides the thing you are trying to do. Or imagine eliminating the distractions(like you are a prisoner and this is the only thing you have). That way even the thing you don't want to do is interesting.

// --- Stop procrastinating

// Eat That Frog! By Brian Tracy
1. Set the table.      

Decide exactly what you want. Clarity is essential. Write out your goals and objectives before you begin.

2. Plan every day in advance.       

Think on paper. Every minute you spend in planning can save you five or ten minutes in execution. Make your list the night before the workday ahead.  When something new comes up, add it to the list before you do it.

3. Apply the 80-20 rule to everything.       

20 percent of your activities will account for 80 percent of your results. Always concentrate your efforts on that top 20 percent. Before you begin work, always ask “Is this task in the top 20 percent of my activities or in the bottom 80 percent?” The most valuable tasks you can do each day are often the hardest and most complex but the payoff and rewards for completing these tasks efficiently can be tremendous.

4. Use the ABCDE Method continually.      

Before you begin, work on a list of tasks, take a few moments to organise them by value and priority so you can be sure of working on your most important activities. An “A” item is defined as something that is very important, something that you MUST do.  If you have more than one A task, you prioritise these tasks by A-1, A-2, A-3 and so on. A “D” task is defined as something you can delegate and an “E” task is something you can eliminate altogether. Review your work list and put an A, B, C, D or E next to each task. You will be completely organised and ready to get more important things done faster.

5. Apply the law of three.     

Identify the three things you do in your work that account for 90 percent of your contribution, and focus on getting them done before anything else.

6. Prepare thoroughly before you begin.     

One of the great techniques for overcoming procrastination is for you to get everything that you need to work completely ready, in advance.  When everything is laid out neatly and in sequence, you will feel much more like getting on with the job. Be sure that you have all the writing materials, email addresses and everything else you need to start working and continue working until the job is done.

7. Take it one oil barrel at a time.

One of the best ways to overcome procrastination is for you to get your mind off the huge task in front of you and focus on a single action that you can take. One of the best ways to eat a large frog is for you to take it one bite at a time.

8. Upgrade your key skills.      

Never stop learning. One of the most helpful of all time management techniques is for you to get better at your key tasks. The better you are at key tasks, you will find it easier to overcome procrastination and get the job done faster and better.  Identify the most important things you do, and then make a plan to continually upgrade your skills in those areas.

9. Get out of the technological time sinks.      

For you to stay calm, clearheaded and capable of performing at your best, you need to detach on a regular basis from the technology and communication devices that can overwhelm you. Resolve today to create zones of silence during your day-to-day activities. Turn off all communication devices and technology for one hour in the morning and one hour in the afternoon. You will be amazed at what happens: nothing!

10. Motivate yourself into action.     

To keep yourself motivated you must resolve to be a complete optimist.  You must decide to respond positively to the words, actions and reactions of the people and situations around you. Keep your minds positive by accepting complete responsibility for yourself and everything that happens to you. Refuse to criticise others, complain, or blame others for everything.  Resolve to make progress rather than excuses. Keep your thoughts and your energy focuses forward, on what you can do right now to improve your life, and let the rest go.

Don’t delay. Eat that frog and get the most important tasks done today!


//