
Past authoring is about documenting your past so you can extract knowledge of where, when and how you failed, how you faltered, how you succeeded, how you missed opportunities so you learn from it and don't repeat your mistakes. Also it tells you how your choices lead you to the present.

Future authoring is about choosing goals that make you a better human, and doing the work day by day to reach them, so you can get out of present situation and move to a better future.

//
Look at my fears of working different jobs, write and analyze.
It was the time that I feared. The time and effort you have to pay when participating in the rat race. And how people always complain about not having enough time and money, and when they are old they still don't have enough. How they complain about low pension and bad health. 

It looked terribly inefficient and I also realize I might dread a desk job. After work I would have to workout even though I'm tired, I won't have time to read, relax, spend time with family and so on.

An advancement in career will just add more stress and time consumed for not that much more money.

//
How working for my business feels good.

	Make a goal and break down the path in little pieces so you can do a bit every day. The progress is 
massively effective because incremental progress compounds with time.
	What could I do today that will help put my life in order that I would do. You have to ask yourself not 
tell yourself. You need to ask under what conditions am I willing to put my life in order what little reward would I need to give myself. You can't take out the whip you will find you are a terrible master and a worse slave. Think about what around you isn't right, make a list, then think about little things that you can do that will orient you in the right direction. Try that for a year before you decide you are a failure. 

*** Once you realize what you need to do and you actually do it then don't beat yourself more than you have to, to learn. A good rule to treat yourself but also in how to treat other people.



// dentist
Eventually have to go to dentist, even if I don't like it.

//






