//
I just realized that by following hedonism and the path of least resistance(laziness) I almost never experienced something real, inspiring or uplifting about me or my actions. Almost nothing that I did evoked such positive emotions that brought me to tears.

// The story of world champion and two nobody.
Two nobodies(a girl and her mother) saw a tall and slightly overweight woman(I say slightly because we do not have yet the obesity rates from America). They both laughed, I was surprised the mother encouraged this behaviour. Anyway what struck me was that I knew that person. She was a world champion in volleyball, "world champion". Now to be world champion the training you have to endure, the discipline you need to cultivate is off the chart compared to a normal human that has problem resisting the temptation of a cookie, TV or Internet etc. And what struck me was, if nobodies laugh at a world champion why should I care when they laugh at me.
By the way she had some problems with her back that required surgery, so she could not move as much, thats why she was slightly overweight.

There was this man that worked on his house, and at some point he had to go the store because he needed some materials but he didn't change his clothes. A grandma and a kid were there, the grandma said you should try hard in school or else you will end up like that man. And he felt the need to correct the situation, and he pulled his phone and showed her that actually he was a successful guy he was just working for his house and didn't change.

//
I seem to realize useless behavior when I see other people doing it. When I do it is seem to avoid recognizing useless behavior or downplay it.

//!
I was depressed in college done a stupid thing, expand on this further.

There was an event with grandma that made my depression way worse and triggered multiple muscles to stiffen.
She got dizzy from her Alzheimer(need to check if this gets you dizzy or not) she fell, had a big bruise on her chest, and she kept saying she doesn't know what happened but maybe somebody hit her. Yeah she just fell but she was embarrassed. Anyway she was confused and kept talking how she doesn't know what happened, and that maybe some intruder hit her over and over. Anyway I went with mother and aunt to the hospital with her. We stayed till night, as we stayed my daydreaming to escape current reality and worrying mad my muscle stiffen. It stayed that way for years. Now it's 2020 and I don't know when this event happened but it's been years since it happened, I am still tight.

Even right now she went in the garden worked a bit in the sun, now she feel sick can barely stand up, quick quick lets go to her son so she can drive him crazy with her constant drama queen act. If she is seek she has the urge to immediately ask for help even if we can't help her. The doctors warned us the she will continue to have episodes of feeling unwell and she may faint also, there is nothing they can do other than some medicine that doesn't solve anything may keep some side effects under control but has a lot more of other side effects.

My father has a way of speaking that exudes irritation and resentment. He talks and his mood is reflected into his words, body language and you become irritated and anxious because you have to be real careful with your words and tone to not trigger him.


//
A dog almost bit me at the collage entrance. Ever since then I feel a bit of fear from dogs. For example if person walks a big or medium dog I tend to try or slightly put a bit of extra distance from the dog.

// 
When we were kids we didn't care that much about acquiring wealth, chasing women, displaying our status, but as we grew, we changed and now we are unbalance and unhappy. Capitalism most often does not offer the answer to a balanced and content life. There is always the new product or service that is marketed, or we have stuff on sale, quick quick buy.

// Programming
Programming is an activity that may lead to retreating from social interaction, this increases the likelihood of depression.

You shield yourself from light because it's interfering with the monitor, you seclude yourself to not be 
disturbed. Also I noticed I didn't want to be interrupted and I got cranky every time I got interrupted.

The way we learned in school we did not learn about human interactions, in general human are not completely greedy but they are not completely logical either. You need to learn negotiating, but you need to understand human interactions and emotions first.

I like problem solving, problems that I can solve and don't require advanced math. I also like certain types of math like statistics.


In general as software developer you are missing environment interaction, you need hardware to interact with the outside world.

For programming if you have to show things on a board, buy a board and exercise at home.


//
I also hate it when my mother keeps hinting that I have to get a job with stories about young guys having jobs and bla bla bla. I know I have to do something about this but first I must resolve my depression and anxiety that keep my muscles tense.

I also don't like it when I talk she jumps in the conversation and tries to relate or outdo what I'm saying. 

For example I talked once about how people at Google figured out how to work together better only to be interrupted and be told that just how they do it at work, as if the business that she works for is equal to Google.

//
Once a car zipped past me on the sidewalk. It happened so fast I didn't get scared, I was just dazed by the stupidity and banality of the act. I could get hit by a car on the sidewalk on the same road I traveled thousands of time. What made me angry was that when the newbie girl driver got out of the car, she didn't even noticed me. She was busy talking on the phone getting help from the eternal helper or helpers that she has when she is young.

// 
Scary story woman left her mother with Alzheimer alone in the countryside with food in the freezer but she forgot that there was food there and she probably forgot how to heat it. She had to get water a certain way in the countryside(I forgot how) but she didn't do that either. The woman went in vacation for 5 days when she got home her mother was collapsed and dehydrated. She was rushed to the hospital.


//
Sometimes father gets angry when he tells me to remember stuff(for example remind me to do this and that at 3:00 PM, or remember to buy this and that) I tell him Ok, I'm going to write it down. As if it's a great insult not to keep the information in your head and worry all the time to not forget.

My parents told me a few times I speak to less with them.
I remember once when father cooked dinner and he was eating with mother. I was talking about something with them and he kept interrupting me, over and over. When I stopped talking he wold tell me not to be upset and continue, then he wold interrupt me again. He was fishing for compliments, over and over again and he also kept asking questions to reassure him the food is good enough. Excessive fishing for compliments and excessive reassurance seeking.

There are a couple of other things my father does. 
	One is after he eats he starts sucking his teeth for more than half an hour, it's loud and annoying. 
	
	When he sees me standing up at the computer he keeps asking me if the computer is not working. I kept 	
		telling him that I'm standing up because I wanted to switch from standing on the chair but also that 
		I'm concentrating learning something, or trying to solve something. I kept hinting to not disturb me, 
		he just wouldn't understand. I could say outright that he is disturbing me, but from multiple 
		previous experiences this will not go well, at all, really.

	He wants to buy stuff online and I'm the one that gets to order it and receive it, in general it's not 
		bad until he keeps asking me "When will it arrive ?", "Is it here yet ?".

    Another thing is when my parents told me to speak with them more often, but I kept realizing for example 
    	that my father does not listen or he simply talks over you, my mother has the habit of jumping in the conversation and outdo what you are talking about. 

    Father saw me eating standing up, he kept bugging me with an annoying and slightly aggressive tone(which 
    	is the 	prelude for explosive shouting) "Why are you not eating at the table ?". When I explained 
    	that I stay to much seated and I wanted to stay a bit on my feet I assumed he listened. Only to find 
    	out in a day or two that he didn't remember our conversation and now he told me slightly 
    	threateningly to eat at the table.

// to do
// story painting teacher how I didn't have the heart to leave
// story Zsolt gaming
// story selling games to Alex
// story Andrei game
// story selling games how it made me feel, that guy
// story psychology teacher about how selfish I am based on my ugly writing
// Expand the story about me and Sergiu with the glue stick.




