//
bake cauliflower, broccoli, other veggies

try to make sauces
possible ingredients:
lemon juice, lemon zest, tofu, granulated soy, garlic, onion, other spices, dried fruit, try to mash, blend

// make pickled vegetables
slices of red onion in vinegar, water and a bit of salt

//
Cherries can reduce the level of inflammation among healthy people too (as measured by a drop in C-reactive protein levels),32 so I was excited to find a green-light source available year-round—a canned product with only two ingredients: cherries and water. I drain off the liquid (which then goes into my hibiscus punch recipe here) and mix the cherries in a bowl of cooked oatmeal along with cocoa powder and pumpkin seeds. If you sweeten it with date sugar or erythritol (see here), it’s like eating chocolate-covered cherries for breakfast.

A note of caution: For the same reason that high doses of anti-inflammatory drugs such as aspirin should be avoided during the third trimester of pregnancy, cocoa, berries, and other foods high in anti-inflammatory polyphenols should only be eaten in moderation in late pregnancy.


//
The favored dessert in our home is soft-serve “ice cream” made by blending frozen fruit. You whip up frozen fruit in a blender, food processor, or juicer, and voilà! Instant all-fruit ice cream. You have to taste it to believe it. The simplest recipe has one ingredient: frozen bananas. Peel and freeze some ripe bananas (the riper, the better—I’m talking brown). Once frozen, throw them in a food processor and blend. They transform into a smooth, light, fluffy dessert cheaper, healthier, and tastier than anything you might get in a trendy frozen yogurt shop.

Of course making berry ice cream or at least a berry-banana mix is even healthier. My favorite is chocolate. To make it, blend dark, sweet cherries or strawberries mixed with a tablespoon of cocoa power, a splash of a milk of your choice (more if you want a milkshake), a capful of vanilla extract, and some pitted dates. If you didn’t yet get your nuts for the day, you can add some almond butter. Either way, you get an instant, decadent, chocolate dessert so nutritious that the more you eat, the healthier you are. Let me repeat that: The more you eat, the healthier you are. That’s my kind of ice cream!

// Broccoli and cabbage should be left alone 40 min after cutting
Slices of raw red or purple cabbage.

//
Roasting Cruciferous Vegetables

As much as I love mashed cauliflower, roasted cauliflower (or broccoli, for that matter) is my favorite. Roasting brings out a nutty, caramelized flavor. I slice raw cauliflower into “steaks,” roast at 400°F for about a half hour, and then smother it in a lemon-tahini sauce. Sometimes I go minimalist and just sprinkle on lemon juice, zest, capers, and garlic. (This chapter is making me hungry!)

// Broccoli sprout seeds
After chopping and discarding the waste, red cabbage averages 45 cents a cup.19 But broccoli sprouts—if you make them yourself—may be even cheaper. Broccoli sprout seeds can be purchased online or at natural foods stores for about twenty dollars a pound, but that makes about seventy-five cups of sprouts. In terms of sulforaphane content, that may be around three hundred cups of mature broccoli. So DIY broccoli sprouts provide a green-light sulforaphane source for about a nickel a day.

Sprouting broccoli sprouts is as easy as sprouting lentils. Start with a mason jar with a sprouting (screen) lid. Add a tablespoon of seeds, let them soak overnight in water, drain in the morning, and then after that, just quickly rinse and drain twice a day. Most people wait for about five days, until the seeds fully sprout (taking on the look of alfalfa sprouts), but new science suggests sulforaphane content peaks at forty-eight hours after the seeds are initially drained.20 This makes them even quicker and easier to grow and eat. When I’m not traveling, I usually have a few jars in rotation. It can be the middle of winter, and I’m growing my own salad on my kitchen counter! Every day, you can get cups of fresh produce for your family without ever having to go to the store.

//
Salad Days

Having a big salad every day is a great way to burn through the Daily Dozen. To a base of mesclun greens and arugula, I add tomato, red bell pepper, beans, and barberries, along with toasted nuts if I’m using a fat-free dressing. My current favorite dressing recipe is a Caesar spin-off shared by Dr. Michael Klaper from the TrueNorth Health Center:

2 tablespoons almond meal

3 cloves crushed garlic

3 tablespoons dijon mustard

3 tablespoons nutritional yeast flakes

2 tablespoons white miso

3 tablespoons lemon juice

1/3 cup water

Blend and enjoy! (If you have a high-speed blender, you could probably use whole almonds instead of meal.)



//
The sweetness trick is why green smoothies can be so delicious (if not a little odd looking). Smoothies can be a great way to introduce greens into children’s diets. The basic triad is a liquid, ripe fruit, and fresh greens. I’d start with a two-to-one ratio of fruits to greens to start with before tipping heavier toward greens on the scale. So, for example, one cup of water, a frozen banana, a cup of frozen berries, and a cup of packed baby spinach would be a classic green smoothie 101.

I like to add fresh mint leaves as well for a boost of flavor (and even more greens). Fresh herbs can be expensive at the store, but mint can grow like a weed in your yard or in a pot on your windowsill. Eating greens for breakfast can be as delicious as mint chocolate oatmeal—cooked oatmeal, chopped mint leaves, cocoa powder, and a healthy sweetener (see here).

When you’re thinking about ways to pair your greens with something you already love to make the greens more palatable, consider mixing them with a green-light source of fat: nuts, seeds, nut or seed butters, or avocados. Many of the nutrients greens are famous for are fat soluble, including beta-carotene, lutein, vitamin K, and zeaxanthin. So pairing your greens with a green-light source of fat may not only make them taste better but will maximize nutrient absorption. This can mean enjoying a creamy tahini-based dressing on your salad, putting walnuts in your pesto, or sprinkling some toasted sesame seeds on your sautéed kale.

The jump in nutrient absorption is no small effect. When researchers tried feeding people a healthy salad of spinach, romaine, carrots, and tomatoes along with a source of fat, there was an impressive spike in carotenoid phytonutrients in their bloodstream over the next eight hours. With a fat-free dressing, carotenoid absorption flatlined down to negligible amounts; it was as if they’d never eaten the salad at all.23 Similarly, adding some avocado to your salsa may triple the amount of fat-soluble nutrients that make it into your bloodstream (in this case, the lycopene in the tomatoes).24 It doesn’t take much. Just three grams of fat in an entire hot meal may be sufficient to boost absorption.25 That’s just a single walnut or a spoonful of avocado or shredded coconut. Snack on a few pistachios after a meal, and you’re all set. The greens and the source of fat just have to end up in your stomach at the same time.


//
The different phytonutrient profiles may then result in different clinical effects. For example, drinking tomato juice can rescue the immune function of study subjects crippled by two weeks of fruit and vegetable deficiency, but carrot juice apparently cannot.5 Even different parts of the same vegetable can have different effects. One of the reasons certain tomato products appear to be protective against heart attacks6 is because the yellow fluid surrounding the seeds concentrates a compound that suppresses platelet activation.7 

(Platelets are what help trigger the blood clots that cause heart attacks and most strokes.) Aspirin has a similar effect, but it doesn’t work in everyone and can increase bleeding risk—two limitations that the tomato compound may be able to overcome.8,9 But if you only consume tomato sauce, juice, or ketchup, you may be missing out10 since the seeds are removed during processing. So when picking out canned tomato products, choose whole, crushed, or diced tomatoes instead of tomato sauce, purée, or paste.

//
The Uses of Blended Nuts

Nuts make for quick and delicious snacks on their own, but my personal favorite use for them is as green-light sources of fat to make rich, creamy sauces. Whether in a cashew Alfredo, a ginger-peanut sauce, or a tahini-based green goddess dressing, nuts and seeds can maximize nutrient acquisition by both improving absorption and increasing your total intake of vegetables by adding some creamy cachet.

An often overlooked use for nuts is as a key ingredient in soups, such as African peanut stew. When blended and heated, cashews thicken to make an amazingly creamy soup base. Nut and seed butters also pair well with veggies and fruits. Most everyone loves the classic childhood pairings of peanut butter with celery or apples. One of my favorite treats is dipping fresh strawberries into a decadent chocolate sauce. All you need is a half cup of an unsweetened milk, one tablespoon of chia seeds, one tablespoon of cocoa, one teaspoon of almond butter, and sweetener to taste. (I use one tablespoon of erythritol, discussed here.) Mix all the ingredients, and heat until the almond butter melts and the sweetener dissolves. Pour into a bowl, whisk until smooth, and put it in the fridge to cool. The chia and fiber from the cocoa powder help it thicken into an indulgent delight. (You can grind up the chia seeds first, but I like the tapioca-like texture the little chia balls form.)


// pumpkin pie smoothie

Consuming turmeric with soy may offer a double benefit for osteoarthritis sufferers.23 Scrambled tofu is the classic turmeric-soy combination, but let me share two of my favorites: one raw and one cooked. You can whip up a pumpkin pie smoothie in less than three minutes. Simply blend a can of pumpkin purée, a handful of frozen cranberries and pitted dates, pumpkin pie spice to taste, a quarter-inch turmeric slice (or quarter-teaspoon of powder), and unsweetened soy milk to reach your preferred consistency.

// pumpkin custard

Another favorite is my pumpkin custard (aka crustless pie). All you need to do is blend one can of pumpkin purée with about ten ounces of silken tofu (the Mori-Nu brand is convenient because it stays fresh without refrigeration), as much pumpkin pie spice as you like, and one to two dozen pitted dates (depending on how much of a sweet tooth you have). Pour into a dish and bake at 350°F until cracks appear on the surface. By skipping the piecrust and sticking with a custard, you’re left with vegetables, tofu, spices, and fruit. The more you eat, the healthier you are.

// lemon-ginger apple chews
Try making my lemon-ginger apple chews: In a blender, liquefy one peeled lemon with a palm-sized “hand” of fresh gingerroot. Use the mixture to coat thin slices of four apples, and then place them in a dehydrator until they reach desired chewiness. I like them a little moist, but you can dehydrate them further to make lemon-ginger apple chips, which store longer than the chews. For me, a few pieces eaten about twenty minutes before travel works wonders.

Note: Ginger is generally considered safe during pregnancy, but the maximum recommended daily dose of fresh ginger while pregnant is 20 grams (about four teaspoons of freshly grated gingerroot).72 Any more may have uterus-stimulating effects. Women using my apple chews recipe to combat morning sickness should spread out the four apples’ worth of chews or chips over several days.



//
Dr. Greger’s Eight Check-Mark Pesto

2 cups fresh basil leaves

¼ cup walnuts

2 cloves fresh garlic

¼ of a peeled lemon

¼ teaspoon lemon zest

¼ inch of fresh turmeric root (or ¼ teaspoon turmeric powder)

¼ cup pinto beans

¼ cup water or liquid from bean can

1 tablespoon white miso

Pepper to taste





































