inspirational talkers: Brian Tracy, Earl Nightingale, Alan Watts

// I saw a soldier with his mates,he had a bandage on his eyes and he lost a part of his leg and arm. I realized how insignificant our day to day problems are compared to other people. I don't have problems.

// If your mind is always on the past or the future, rarely on the present, are you alive ?

// People like animals, follow the path of least resistance.

// If you do not cultivate the inner self, garbage will start to pile up and warp you into something unwanted. Hardship and disciple is used to remove and reveal what you are or you could be. It is an internal process. Only you can do it.

// 
	There is pain and suffering, you can chose to not suffer. 
	Discipline, persistence and patience. 
	Meditation allows the mind to focus on the now, or else your life will slip away without you being aware.

//
If you make a schedule, arrange the day so you are willing to do it, don't make it a prison. You need the right ratio of reward to responsibility. Maybe you have for 1h of responsibility 15 min of playing video games. You have to negotiate with yourself and not tyrannize with yourself. Like you negotiate with someone that you care for, that you would like to be productive and have a good life.

1 A goal
2 Attitude our attitude toward the world. We have the ability to change our environment.
3 Think.  The only thing about a man that is a man is it’s his mind everything else you can find in a pig or horse. Spend some time in front of a paper and think of new ideas about achieving your goal.
4 Reap what you saw. There are rewards in life equal to our contribution. Story preacher and the nice farm(Preacher: God has blessed you with a magnificent farm. Farmer: You should have seen this place when he had it all to himself.)
5 Truth. Build on truth or else you build on sand.
6 How much did you invest in yourself to make you smarter than the year before.
7 Strangest Secret: We become what we think most of the time. By thinking you will become that.
8 Imagination is everything. We can become what we imagine. If you get depressed "
Do your work. Not just your work and no more, but a little more for the lavishing sake. That little more which is worth all the rest. And if you doubt as you must; and if you suffer as you must-- do your work. Put your heart into it and the sky will clear. And then out of your very doubt and suffering will be born the supreme joy of life."
In life our greatest joys,satisfactions and rewards will come from our work not our leisure.

// 
Nobody is forced to become a SEAL. They are not drafted. So the constant question when things are hard is "Why am I here ?". Self discipline is hard you will also ask yourself "Why am I doing this. Nobody is forcing me." . Smile and know you are transforming. The default way we are programmed is to follow the easy path. The difficult path is the one that transforms you.

*******************************************
That’s one reason I invented the Cookie Jar. We must create a system that constantly reminds us who the fuck we are when we are at our best, because life is not going to pick us up when we fall. There will be forks in the road, knives in your fucking back, mountains to climb, and we are only capable of living up to the image we create for ourselves.

Prepare yourself!

We know life can be hard, and yet we feel sorry for ourselves when it isn’t fair. From this point forward, accept the following as Goggins’ laws of nature:

You will be made fun of.
You will feel insecure.
You may not be the best all the time.
You may be the only black, white, Asian, Latino, female, male, gay, lesbian or [fill in your identity here] in a given situation.
There will be times when you feel alone.
Get over it!

Our minds are fucking strong, they are our most powerful weapon, but we have stopped using them. We have access to so many more resources today than ever before and yet we are so much less capable than those who came before us. If you want to be one of the few to defy those trends in our ever-softening society, you will have to be willing to go to war with yourself and create a whole new identity, which requires an open mind. It’s funny, being open minded is often tagged as new age or soft. Fuck that. Being open minded enough to find a way is old school. It’s what knuckle draggers do. And that’s exactly what I did.

//
There is no finish line, Goggins. There is no finish line.

//
“YOU CAN’T HURT BOAT CREW TWO!”

That was our fuck you to the instructors, and we had their full attention as we soared on a second wind. On the toughest day of the hardest week in the world’s toughest training, Boat Crew Two was moving at lightning speed and making a mockery of Hell Week. The look on the instructors’ faces told a story. Their mouths hung open like they were witnessing something nobody had ever seen before. Some averted their eyes, almost embarrassed. Only SBG looked satisfied.

Since that night in Hell Week, I’ve deployed the Taking Souls concept countless times. Taking Souls is a ticket to finding your own reserve power and riding a second wind. It’s the tool you can call upon to win any competition or overcome every life obstacle. You can utilize it to win a chess match, or conquer an adversary in a game of office politics. It can help you rock a job interview or excel at school. And yes, it can be used to conquer all manner of physical challenges, but remember, this is a game you are playing within yourself. Unless you’re engaged in physical competition, I’m not suggesting that you try to dominate someone or crush their spirit. In fact, they never even need to know you’re playing this game. This is a tactic for you to be your best when duty calls. It’s a mind game you’re playing on yourself.

**********************************************
Taking someone’s soul means you’ve gained a tactical advantage. Life is all about looking for tactical advantages, which is why we stole the Hell Week schedule, why we nipped Psycho’s heels on that run, and why I made a show of myself in the surf, humming the Platoon theme song. Each of those incidents was an act of defiance that empowered us.

But defiance isn’t always the best way to take someone’s soul. It all depends upon your terrain. During BUD/S, the instructors didn’t mind if you looked for advantages like that. They respected it as long as you were also kicking ass. You must do your own homework. Know the terrain you’re operating in, when and where you can push boundaries, and when you should fall in line.

Next, take inventory of your mind and body on the eve of battle. List out your insecurities and weakness, as well as your opponent’s. For instance, if you’re getting bullied, and you know where you fall short or feel insecure, you can stay ahead of any insults or barbs a bully may throw your way. You can laugh at yourself along with them, which disempowers them. If you take what they do or say less personally, they no longer hold any cards. Feelings are just feelings. On the other hand, people who are secure with themselves don’t bully other people. They look out for other people, so if you’re getting bullied you know that you’re dealing with someone who has problem areas you can exploit or soothe. Sometimes the best way to defeat a bully is to actually help them. If you can think two or three moves ahead, you will commandeer their thought process, and if you do that, you’ve taken their damn soul without them even realizing it.

Our SEAL instructors were our bullies, and they didn’t realize the games I was playing during that week to keep Boat Crew Two sharp. And they didn’t have to. I imagined that they were obsessed with our exploits during Hell Week, but I don’t know that for sure. It was a ploy I used to maintain my mental edge and help our crew prevail.

In the same way, if you are up against a competitor for a promotion, and you know where you fall short, you can shape up your game ahead of your interview or evaluation. In that scenario, laughing at your weaknesses won’t solve the problem. You must master them. In the meantime, if you are aware of your competitor’s vulnerabilities you can spin those to your advantage, but all of that takes research. Again, know the terrain, know yourself, and you’d better know your adversary in detail.

Once you’re in the heat of battle, it comes down to staying power. If it’s a difficult physical challenge you will probably have to defeat your own demons before you can take your opponent’s soul. That means rehearsing answers to the simple question that is sure to rise up like a thought bubble: “Why am I here?” If you know that moment is coming and have your answer ready, you will be equipped to make the split second-decision to ignore your weakened mind and keep moving. Know why you’re in the fight to stay in the fight!

*****************************************************
And never forget that all emotional and physical anguish is finite! It all ends eventually. Smile at pain and watch it fade for at least a second or two. If you can do that, you can string those seconds together and last longer than your opponent thinks you can, and that may be enough to catch a second wind. There is no scientific consensus on second wind. Some scientists think it’s the result of endorphins flooding your nervous system, others think it’s a burst of oxygen that can help break down lactic acid, as well as the glycogen and triglycerides muscles need to perform. Some say its purely psychological. All I know is that by going hard when we felt defeated we were able to ride a second wind through the worst night in Hell Week. And once you have that second wind behind you it’s easy to break your opponent down and snatch a soul. The hard part is getting to that point, because the ticket to victory often comes down to bringing your very best when you feel your worst.

//*********************************************************
A lot of us surround ourselves with people who speak to our desire for comfort. Who would rather treat the pain of our wounds and prevent further injury than help us callous over them and try again. We need to surround ourselves with people who will tell us what we need to hear, not what we want to hear, but at the same time not make us feel we’re up against the impossible. My mother was my biggest fan. Whenever I failed in life she was always asking me when and where I would go after it again. She never said, Well, maybe it isn’t meant to be.


//
That wasn’t easy because after my second failure in as many attempts, the doubters were everywhere online. The record holder, Stephen Hyland, was light and spidery strong with thick, muscular palms. He was the perfect build for the pull-up record, and everyone was telling me I was just too big, my form was too brutal, and that I should stop trying to go for it before I hurt myself even worse. They pointed to the scoreboard that doesn’t lie. I was still over 800 pull-ups away from the record. That’s more than I gained between my first and second attempts. From the beginning some of them had predicted my hands would give out, and when that truth revealed itself in Nashville it presented a big mental hurdle. Part of me wondered if those motherfuckers were right. If I was trying to achieve the impossible.

*****************************************************************************
Then I thought of an English middle-distance runner from back in the day named Roger Bannister. When Bannister was trying to break the four-minute mile in the 1950s, experts told him it couldn’t be done, but that didn’t stop him. He failed again and again, but he persevered, and when he ran his historic mile in 3:59.4 on May 6, 1954, he didn’t just break a record, he broke open the floodgates simply by proving it possible. Six weeks later, his record was eclipsed, and by now over 1,000 runners have done what was once thought to be beyond human capability.

We are all guilty of allowing so-called experts, or just people who have more experience in a given field than we do, to cap our potential. One of the reasons we love sports is because we also love watching those glass ceilings get shattered. If I was going to be the next athlete to smash popular perception, I’d need to stop listening to doubt, whether it streamed in from the outside or bubbled up from within, and the best way to do that was to decide that the pull-up record was already mine. I didn’t know when it would officially become mine. It might be in two months or twenty years, but once I decided it belonged to me and decoupled it from the calendar, I was filled with confidence and relieved of any and all pressure because my task morphed from trying to achieve the impossible into working toward an inevitability. But to get there, I’d have to find the tactical advantage I’d been missing.


//*************************************************************************
You can’t prepare for unknown factors, but if you have a better pre-game focus, you will likely only have to deal with one or two rather than ten. In New York, too many bubbled up, and unknown factors usually blaze a wake of doubt. Afterward, I was eye to eye with my haters and acknowledged that my margin for error was small. I weighed 210 pounds, much heavier than anyone else who had ever tried to break that record, and my probability of failure was high.

// NO TIME
The number one excuse I hear from people as to why they don’t work out as much as they want to is that they don’t have time. Look, we all have work obligations, none of us want to lose sleep, and you’ll need time with the family or they’ll trip the fuck out. I get it, and if that’s your situation, you must win the morning.

When I was full-time with the SEALs I maximized the dark hours before dawn. When my wife was sleeping, I would bang out a six- to ten-mile run. My gear was all laid out the night before, my lunch was packed, and my work clothes were in my locker at work where I’d shower before my day started at 7:30 a.m. On a typical day, I’d be out the door for my run just after 4 a.m. and back by 5:15 a.m. Since that wasn’t enough for me, and because we only owned one car, I rode my bike (I finally got my own shit!) twenty-five miles to work. I’d work from 7:30 a.m. to noon, and eat at my desk before or after my lunch break. During the lunch hour I’d hit the gym or do a four- to six-mile beach run, work the afternoon shift and hop on my bike for the twenty-five-mile ride home. By the time I was home at 7 p.m., I’d have run about fifteen miles, rocked fifty miles on the bike, and put in a full day at the office. I was always home for dinner and in bed by 10 p.m. so I could do it all over again the next day. On Saturdays I’d sleep in until 7 a.m., hit a three-hour workout, and spend the rest of the weekend with Kate. If I didn’t have a race, Sundays were my active recovery days. I’d do an easy ride at a low heart rate, keeping my pulse below 110 beats per minute to stimulate healthy blood flow.

Maybe you think I’m a special case or an obsessive maniac. Fine, I won’t argue with you. But what about my friend Mike? He’s a big-time financial advisor in New York City. His job is high pressure and his work day is a hell of a lot longer than eight hours. He has a wife and two kids, and he’s an ultra runner. Here’s how he does it. He wakes up at 4 a.m. every weekday, runs sixty to ninety minutes each morning while his family is still snoozing, rides a bike to work and back and does a quick thirty-minute treadmill run after he gets home. He goes out for longer runs on weekends, but he minimizes its impact on his family obligations.

He’s high-powered, wealthy as fuck, and could easily maintain his status quo with less effort and enjoy the sweet fruits of his labors, but he finds a way to stay hard because his labors are his sweetest fruits. And he makes time to get it all in by minimizing the amount of bullshit clogging his schedule. His priorities are clear, and he remains dedicated to his priorities. I’m not talking about general priorities here either. Each hour of his week is dedicated to a particular task and when that hour shows up in real time, he focuses 100 percent on that task. That’s how I do it too, because that is the only way to minimize wasted hours.

Evaluate your life in its totality! We all waste so much time doing meaningless bullshit. We burn hours on social media and watching television, which by the end of the year would add up to entire days and weeks if you tabulated time like you do your taxes. You should, because if you knew the truth you’d deactivate your Facebook account STAT, and cut your cable. When you find yourself having frivolous conversations or becoming ensnared in activities that don’t better you in any way, move the fuck on!

For years I’ve lived like a monk. I don’t see or spend time with a lot of people. My circle is very tight. I post on social media once or twice a week and I never check anybody else’s feeds because I don’t follow anyone. That’s just me. I’m not saying you need to be that unforgiving, because you and I probably don’t share the same goals. But I know you have goals too, and room for improvement, or you wouldn’t be reading my book, and I guarantee that if you audited your schedule you’d find time for more work and less bullshit.

It’s up to you to find ways to eviscerate your bullshit. How much time do you spend at the dinner table talking about nothing after the meal is done? How many calls and texts do you send for no reason at all? Look at your whole life, list your obligations and tasks. Put a time stamp on them. How many hours are required to shop, eat, and clean? How much sleep do you need? What’s your commute like? Can you make it there under your own power? Block everything into windows of time, and once your day is scheduled out, you’ll know how much flexibility you have to exercise on a given day and how to maximize it.

Perhaps you aren’t looking to get fit, but have been dreaming of starting a business of your own, or have always wanted to learn a language or an instrument you’re obsessed with. Fine, the same rule applies. Analyze your schedule, kill your empty habits, burn out the bullshit, and see what’s left. Is it one hour per day? Three? Now maximize that shit. That means listing your prioritized tasks every hour of the day. You can even narrow it down to fifteen-minute windows, and don’t forget to include backstops in your day-to-day schedule. Remember how I forgot to include backstops in my race plan at Ultraman? You need backstops in your day-to-day schedule too. If one task bleeds into overtime, make sure you know it, and begin to transition into your next prioritized task straight away. Use your smartphone for productivity hacks, not click bait. Turn on your calendar alerts. Have those alarms set.

If you audit your life, skip the bullshit, and use backstops, you’ll find time to do everything you need and want to do. But remember that you also need rest, so schedule that in. Listen to your body, sneak in those ten- to twenty-minute power naps when necessary, and take one full rest day per week. If it’s a rest day, truly allow your mind and body to relax. Turn your phone off. Keep the computer shut down. A rest day means you should be relaxed, hanging with friends or family, and eating and drinking well, so you can recharge and get back at it. It’s not a day to lose yourself in technology or stay hunched at your desk in the form of a damn question mark.

The whole point of the twenty-four-hour mission is to keep up a championship pace, not for a season or a year, but for your entire life! That requires quality rest and recovery time. Because there is no finish line. There is always more to learn, and you will always have weaknesses to strengthen if you want to become as hard as woodpecker lips. Hard enough to hammer countless miles, and finish that shit strong!



Henry James
Live all you can — it's a mistake not to. It doesn't so much matter what you do in particular, so long as you have your life. If you haven't had that, what have you had?... What one loses one loses; make no mistake about that...The right time is any time that one is still so lucky as to have.... Live!

Robert Jones Burdette
There are two days in the week about which and upon which I never worry. Two carefree days, kept sacredly free from fear and apprehension. One of these days is Yesterday. And the other day I do not worry about is Tomorrow. It isn't the experience of Today that drives men mad. It is the remorse of what happened Yesterday and fear of what Tomorrow might bring.



Archibald MacLeish
The only thing about a man that is a man is his mind. Everything else you can find in a pig or a horse.


Dean Briggs
Do your work. Not just your work and no more, but a little more for the lavishing's sake. That little more which is worth all the rest. And if you doubt as you must; and if you suffer as you must-- do your work. Put your heart into it and the sky will clear. And then out of your very doubt and suffering will be born the supreme joy of life.

Earl Nightingale
Most people tiptoe through life, hoping to make it safely to death.


Joseph Campbell
The cave you fear to enter holds the treasure you seek.

Bob Proctor
When you talk about you, you can use superlatives all day long and fall short of describing the dynamics of you. . It’s not conceit; it’s awareness.

Andrew Carnegie
Any idea that is held in the mind and emphasized, whether it is feared or revered, will begin at once to clothe itself in the most convenient and appropriate form available.

// Controlled indulgence. To ease compulsion.
Forgot the name of Greek philosopher that encourages a life where you enjoy simple pleasures.

Epictetus
Circumstances do not make the man, they only reveal him to himself.

Dr. Harold Blake Walker
We live by faith or we do not live at all. Either we venture, or we vegetate. If we venture, we do so by faith, simply because we cannot know the end of anything at its beginning. We risk marriage on faith, or we stay single. We prepare for a profession by faith, or we give up before we start. By faith we move mountains of opposition, or we’re stopped by molehills. Faith, however, is not often tranquil and steady. It ebbs and flows like the tides of the restless sea. Normally, like Browning’s Bishop, we are forever exchanging a life of doubt diversified by faith, for one of faith diversified by doubt.

//
Learn from others’ mistakes. You may not live long enough to make them all yourself.


//
Among other writings, Musashi left us with twenty-one principles for those who walk alone named Dokkōdō, that he wrote down not long before he died. Even though the age of the samurai is long gone, Musashi’s principles are timeless and can inspire us today to live well.



The Japanese word ‘rōnin’ describes a samurai without a master, who wanders alone.
The status of a ronin varied across different time-periods.

In a general sense, being a ronin implied failure.
More specifically, a ronin had renounced the act of ‘seppuku’, which is a form of Japanese
ritual suicide that was applied to restore honor after defeat.
Those who refused seppuku became outcasts that endured a reputation of disgrace.

Walking their own path, some ronin worked as mercenaries and bodyguards, and others
became criminals.
One of the most legendary ronin is Miyamoto Musashi, who is famed as Japan’s greatest
swordsman - undefeated in more than sixty duels.

Musashi became a ronin after he escaped death during the Battle of Sekigahara when serving
general Hideyori.

Aside from being a swordsman, he was also a philosopher, artist, and well-learned Buddhist.
Among other writings, Musashi left us with twenty-one principles for those who walk alone
named Dokkōdō, that he wrote down not long before he died.

Even though the age of the samurai is long gone, Musashi’s principles are timeless
and can inspire us today to live well.

1) Accept everything just the way it is.
In The Book of Five Rings, Miyamoto Musashi explains the way of the warrior through the
art of sword fighting.

When reading this book, it becomes clear that ‘the way’ means a life of ongoing practice.
Especially when we look at this from a Buddhist lens, we can conclude that the only effective
way of practice is based on the acceptance of how things currently are.
We cannot improve, if we aren’t willing to be novices at first.

Part of meditation practice, for example, is the acceptance of the current state of
affairs, in order to strengthen the mind.

But Musashi goes even further by saying that the warrior should resolutely accept death.
Death is not just an inevitable part of life, but also an acceptable fate to preserve honor
according to old Japanese traditions.

The act of Seppuku is based on the idea of ‘honorable death’, which follows in a
situation when staying alive would be a disgrace; for example, when someone has failed his or
her duty.

Now, especially for the modern Western mind, this idea is extreme.
Nevertheless, the resolute acceptance of death can help us to accept that it’s a path we
all take someday.

In Buddhism, there’s a practice called ‘corpse meditation’, during which one can contemplate
death in the presence of a dead body, or simply by imagining one.

By doing this practice repeatedly, a Buddhist comes to terms with the reality of death.
For a ronin, we can say that the acceptance of one’s aloneness is essential.
Musashi, for instance, had to face the world without the support of a school or master,
traveling the land, and fighting duels to perfect his skill.

Thus he walked a very solitary path, on which one can only flourish when aloneness is accepted.

2) Do not seek pleasure for its own sake.

Despite his ronin status, Musashi emphasized virtue above pleasure.
He could have become a mercenary or a thief, but he chose to develop himself spiritually,
to perfect the art of the long sword and sacrificed his life for the greater good multiple times.

At most, pleasure should be a side effect of one’s pursuit of virtue.
The meaning of virtue is different across time periods, as ethics and views on morality
change over time.

But we can distinguish pleasure-seeking, meaning the pursuit of selfish gratification of the
senses, from doing something good for the world without taking sense gratification into
account.

Musashi’s attitude toward pleasure is very similar to Stoic and Buddhist attitudes, which
go together with sense-restraint.
Epictetus, for example, argued that, in the long term, the victory of abstaining from
pleasure is better than to be overpowered by it.

The Buddhists argue that sensual pleasure in itself isn’t enjoyable at all; it’s
simply a scratch to an itch; an itch that will worsen if we keep scratching, to the
point that it will lead us astray.

For a ronin, it can be vital to keep pleasure-seeking at bay.
As ronins wander alone, the pursuit of pleasure can become a trap, in which they get entangled
in the world in destructive ways.

The pursuit of tasty food, cheap entertainment, lust, not only tethers people to the mundane;
it also holds them back from practice, which, according to Musashi, could lead to a deeper
spiritual understanding.

In his days of solitude, Musashi could have never perfected his swordsmanship if he had
indulged in pleasure.

3) Do not, under any circumstances, depend on a partial feeling.

Feelings are important, as they indicate that something is going on.
But they aren’t always ideal when it comes to making decisions.
The problem with feelings is that they’re often based on irrational thinking, thus,
based on a delusional view of reality.

Therefore, feelings are, in many cases, partial, as they don’t tell us the whole story which
means that acting upon them can lead to actions that might be wrong and destructive.
Instead, rational thinking, logic, reason… or, in short, assessing a situation, and observing
our feelings with mental clarity is more reliable.

Thus it’s important that we’re mindful of what’s going on in our mind and body.
Are we overpowered by emotion?
Are we coming from a place of anger or fear?
If this is the case, our best bet is to let the dust in our minds settle, and reassess
the situation again when our minds are clear.

Needless to say, battles need to be fought with a clear mind, and enemies should be approached
rather with mental clarity than with emotion, as the latter is detrimental to our skills
and could lead to stupid decisions.

4) Think lightly of yourself and deeply of the world.
Miyamoto Musashi was lethal and humble at the same time, aware of his insignificance
compared to the bigger picture, and also with a willingness to serve the greater good.

Thinking lightly of ourselves means that we acknowledge that we aren’t that important.
Of course, we’re inherently valuable as human beings, but the reality is that if we
die tomorrow, the world probably doesn’t stop spinning.

If we compare ourselves to the universe, we’re incredibly small, and above all, dependent
on the whole.

Why think so highly of ourselves, and elevate ourselves above the environment, when we’re
utterly dependent on it?

The universe is so incredibly vast, so complex, so much more than this tiny ego in our heads.
And by realizing this, we know that not being humble doesn’t make any sense.
A ronin was probably aware of this, as facing the world alone can be an eye-opening experience
in regards to how small and vulnerable we are.

So, it’s not a bad idea to take ourselves with a grain of salt sometimes, and reflect
on how significant our lives truly are.
This doesn’t mean that we should remove ourselves from the equation, but that we always
try to be aware of the proportions between ourselves and the environment so that we don’t
inflate our self-importance and become deluded.

5) Be detached from desire your whole life long.

Desire and aversion are two sides of the same coin.
If we’re averse to something, it means that we desire to not incur the thing we’re averse
to.

Desire, thus, means that we let our happiness depend on something that lies outside of us.
Unfortunately, outside circumstances are beyond our control, so if we let our happiness depend
on them we’ve put ourselves in an unreliable position.
Needless to say, this approach to desire is very Stoic.

The Buddhists see desire, or more specifically, ‘attachment’, as the root of suffering.
Being attached to desire means that we’re fixed on our pursuit of external things, assuming
that this pursuit will make us happy.
Musashi tells us that, despite the vastness of the external world and the smallness of
ourselves, the key to wellbeing lies within.

I quote:
There is nothing outside of yourself that can ever enable you to get better, stronger,
richer, quicker, or smarter.

Everything is within.
Everything exists.
Seek nothing outside of yourself.
End quote.

So, we could say that even though we should be humble to the greatness of the universe,
our focus should be on our own actions within that universe, and not on what we can get
from it, as the latter isn’t reliable.

This is how Stoic philosopher Epictetus puts it, and I quote:
The things in our control are by nature free, unrestrained, unhindered; but those not in
our control are weak, slavish, restrained, belonging to others.

Musashi justly realized that desiring things, not in our control isn’t an effective strategy
for a good life.
Also, experience teaches us that the following desire can lead to addiction.

6) Do not regret what you have done.

Self-reflection and the ability to see what we did wrong, and how we may have hurt other
beings is a very valuable skill, which is essential when it comes to building meaningful
relationships and avoiding past faults in the future.
But repeatedly beating ourselves up over the mistakes we made in the past isn’t going
to help anyone.

At most, we show people that we feel bad about what we’ve done, which can be a good thing,
but after a while, the only way we can go is forward.
Moreover, many bad things that happen tend to be blessings in disguise.
And with shame and damage comes wisdom.

The realization of the destructiveness of our own actions is an opportunity to become
more cautious and more empathetic, which prevents us from more misery in the future.

“When you lose, don’t lose the lesson,” the Dalai Lama stated.
Also, what seem bad decisions now, could turn out to be great decisions in the future, as
the future will always remain mysterious, and will unfold in ways we can never truly
predict.

7) Never be jealous.

When facing the world alone like a ronin, resentment is always around the corner.
Being an outcast often means not having what other people have, especially when it comes
to material things and social connections.
For a ronin it even meant being without a home, drifting across the lands, and not belonging
anywhere.

So, it’s easy to become envious of those who have what you don’t have.
With envy, we could look at couples when we’re single, at the wealthy when we’re poor,
at popular people when we, ourselves, are met with contempt.

It’s pain, based on a desire of wanting things to be different than they are, of wanting
what other people have but, for some reason, we don’t have.
When we walk alone, it’s unwise to burden ourselves with such feelings of resentment,
as they will only harm ourselves.

The only thing we’ve got authority over is our own faculty; all energy we spend on
bitterly comparing ourselves to other people is wasted.
Ronins are better off focusing on their own actions and walking with blinders on if necessary. 


 8) Never let yourself be saddened by a separation.

Separation can take place in several ways.
We can be separated from someone temporarily because of traveling, relocation, or permanently
because of death.

We can also become separated from certain objects, like personal items or money.
For most of us, the separation from what we love leads to suffering.
As we’re attached to the object or person we’re separated from, we experience an intense
feeling of lack, as we believe that what’s taken away from us belongs to us, and is part
of us.

In Buddhism this idea of possession is delusional.
Many Buddhists would agree that we don’t truly own anything outside of our mental faculties;
even our bodies aren’t our own as we don’t fully control them.

Musashi being a ronin and a Buddhist was probably aware of this delusion of possession, as well
as the burden of attachment to objects and people.
His way was one of solitude and practice, and therefore he couldn’t afford to be saddened
by separations, because life is full of separations: all things come and go, whether it’s people,
stuff, or wealth - especially for a ronin who’s traveling from place to place.

Attachment to the people he met and the places he visited would have led to continuous grief.
Instead, as a ronin, he had to embrace the temporary nature of things, including the
inevitable conclusion of life, which is death.

In his Book of Five Rings, Musashi wrote that the way of the warrior is the resolute acceptance
of death.

For a warrior, life is surrounded by death; the death of the people he slays, of the people
that fight by his side, of the people he failed to protect, and, of course, the risk of being
killed himself.

Like no other, Musashi must have realized that death awaits us all.
By being aware of this, and accepting the impermanence of life, we'll have an easier
time when we encounter it.

9) Resentment and complaint are appropriate neither for oneself or others.

It’s very common for people to spend insane amounts of time resenting and complaining
about the world.

The traps of resentment and complaint are very easy to fall into.
For one with a critical eye and strong opinions on how life should be, there’s always something
to complain about.

But when we find ourselves in a continuous state of resentment about the world, it means
that we’re focused on others and not on ourselves.

For someone who’s dedicated to a life of ongoing practice, spending time resenting
and complaining about the world, or one’s own life, is detrimental.

The world is beyond our control.
People will act in ways that don’t comply with our ethics and values all the time.
People will behave foolishly, rudely, ungratefully.

People will dislike us, try to interfere with our lives, treat us unjustly, try to take
advantage of us.
Furthermore, life isn’t fair.

We don’t get equal shares of the pie.
We aren’t equally gifted, equally handsome, equally healthy.

Trying to change this is a sincere ideal created by the human mind, but it’s almost impossible
to achieve, as we’ll find nature working against us all the time.

From a Buddhist point of view, we shouldn’t spend too much time trying to change the world,
and we should especially refrain from resenting what is.
Instead, it’s much wiser to focus on ourselves, live the best life we can, while being accepting
of those who don’t.

Or as Stoic philosopher Marcus Aurelius put it: “be tolerant with others and strict
with yourself.”

10) Do not let yourself be guided by the feeling of lust or love.

In a previous video, I’ve explored the different types of love with selfless love called ‘agape’
by the ancient Greeks on one end, and selfish love called ‘eros’ on the other end.
Musashi seems to point to eros in this case, which is a form of love motivated by lustful
desire, also known among Buddhists as ‘romantic love’.

In many of today’s cultures, we see that romantic love is elevated to the status of
ultimate concern.

This human experience is almost seen as divine and, thus, worthy of our pursuit and sacrifice.
Musashi clearly wouldn’t have endorsed the way we treat romantic love today.

This probably wasn’t just because lust and love are so distracting, and would have been
harmful to his progress as a swordsman, but also because he was a Buddhist.

And Buddhists don’t buy this sacralization of romantic love.
In fact, they are aware of the dangers of being guided by it.
Like any other feeling, love and lust can overcome us.

But we have the choice whether or not we engage with these feelings.
Instead of letting ourselves be blindly guided by romance, it’d be wiser not to forsake
our ability to think rationally so we stay grounded and focused on our path.

People tend to make very unwise decisions while enchanted by lust and love; from choices
that affect their work or violate personal boundaries, to violence and even murder.

11) In all things have no preferences.

The problem with preferences is that we create a dependency when it comes to the state of
the outside world.

When we come across something that we prefer, we’re happy.
But we incur what we don’t prefer or even dislike, we’re disappointed.

As we don’t have anything to say about what the environment presents to us, by having
preferences we’ll give outside circumstances the power over our mood.
Our equanimity will depend on whether or not the circumstances are preferable.

This is kind of an inferior way to go about life.
Musashi encountered many different people, objects, and situations, but had to keep a
tranquil mind so he wouldn’t stray from his path.

Strong preferences would have been harmful to his practice.
So, it’s wise to keep our preferences in check, and instead embrace whatever fate overcomes
us and make the best out of it.

This way, we can never go wrong, and thus the quality of our focus remains independent
of the result.

12) Be indifferent to where you live.
As a ronin, Musashi wandered over Japan, staying in many different places, from castles to caves.

But regardless of where he lived, his way remained the center of his life.

People nowadays put great emphasis on their living environment.

They care a lot about their homes, the neighborhood they live in, the kind of
furniture they possess.
But when we’re too attached to having certain living conditions, we’ll get anxious when
these conditions are threatened.

When our living situation is truly unsafe, it’s, of course, no luxury to abandon that place.
But, oftentimes, it’s simple dissatisfaction with current circumstances that makes people
look for another home.

Some people are quickly bored and unhappy with their current home and believe that moving
will take away this dissatisfaction.
Unfortunately, the sense of fulfillment that follows after moving into a new place is only temporary.

Because wherever we go, we always take ourselves with us.
Satisfaction and dissatisfaction happen within, not outside.
At the end of the day, it doesn’t matter where we live if we’re content within ourselves.

By being content with our homes, no matter how simple and small, we’ll have one less
thing to worry about, and are more likely to stay focused on our purpose.

13) Do not pursue the taste of good food.

Many if not most people indulge in the pleasure of the tongue by enjoying a good meal.
Some spend long evenings wining and dining, consuming drink after drink and course after
course.

But foodies, beware: this behavior has its downsides.
Miyamoto Musashi discourages the pursuit of good food.
His exact reasons for this aren’t known, but when we look at what other philosophers
had to say about this, we might get an idea.

The ancient Stoics for example were also concerned about food.
They encouraged people to eat simply.
Founder of Stoicism Zeno of Citium observed that when people get used to eating fancy,
expensive meals, they stop appreciating the simple foods.

When our appetites become oversaturated, we’ll only crave more extravagant and stimulating
ways to satisfy the pleasure of eating.

Immoderate eating habits could very well turn into gluttony, which leads to health problems.
We’d say that a glutton enjoys and appreciates food, while the opposite may be the case.

Voracious eaters and drinkers usually don’t take time to eat mindfully, and with an appreciation
for the dish in front of them.
Instead, they compulsively consume as much as possible, to be temporarily relieved from
the pain of food cravings.

What we could do instead is eat ‘mindfully’ and in limited amounts, and train ourselves
to not give in to cravings.

By doing so, we’ll be less attached to taste, and our cravings for food will weaken, so
we’re less likely to overeat.
At the end of the day, the purpose of eating is nutrition, as we need fuel to live and thrive.

14) Do not hold on to possessions you no longer need.

It seems like Musashi already knew the benefits of a minimalist lifestyle.
His life as a ronin didn’t lend itself to having possessions.
Traveling Japan, staying in different places, fighting duels, perfecting his skill, possessions
would only have been a burden.

Besides his two swords, he only needed the basics to survive and practice.
Some people tend to collect possessions as if the accumulation of material goods increases
their happiness.

This could be the case for a while but, mostly, it only creates a hunger for more.
Eventually, the more we own, the more weight we carry on our shoulders until we become
servants of our possessions instead of the other way around.

Clinging to our belongings as well the pursuit for more creates anxiety; the fear of losing
what we have, and the fear of not getting what we want.

But when we have a higher purpose and are able to achieve higher levels of happiness,
there’s no point in chasing all these material possessions anymore.

In Buddhism, when one finds contentment in stillness, without needing entertainment like
television or music, chasing possessions doesn’t make much sense.
What it all comes down to is the ability to travel light, like a ronin, so we can focus
on what matters. 

 15) Do not act following customary beliefs.
When we look at human behavior, we see the characteristics of a herd animal.
Many people slavishly follow the norm, not necessarily because it’s the best thing
to do, but because everyone does it.
Musashi was aware of the dangers of blind obedience, and probably experienced the unskillfulness
of leaders in his time.
These could be the leaders of a so-called Ko-ryū, which is a Japanese school of traditional
arts, but also politicians and even the emperor himself.
When we carelessly follow customary beliefs, we throw away our common sense, rational thinking
capacity, and in some cases our morality in the process.
Something being the norm doesn’t mean that it isn’t evil.
We can find countless examples of this in history, in which people collectively engage
in evil, convinced that what they do is, somehow, justifiable.
The events during the second world war illustrate that people who blindly follow the dominant
narrative are capable of doing horrifying things.
Another example is the general attitude towards drinking in Western culture.
While the use of narcotics is frowned upon, drinking alcohol is institutionalized and
considered acceptable, fun, and social, even though its effects can be as destructive (if
not, even more) as using narcotics.
It’s so normalized, that it’s the only drug that we have to justify not taking, even
when alcohol consumption contributes to approximately three million deaths each year, according
to the World Health Organization.
Hence, customary beliefs aren’t always the best guidelines.
Musashi who has lived as a ronin, as well as a hermit, spent significant amounts of
time separated from society and its norms.
One of the benefits of such solitude is that it shields us from outside influences and
lets us watch the world from a distance.
This makes it easier to independently decide what’s beneficial to our lives and what isn’t.

16) Do not collect weapons or practice with weapons beyond what is useful.
Miyamoto Musashi carried a long and a short sword; not because he wanted to show off his
weaponry, but because he was skilled in fighting with two swords, and carrying two swords was
the ‘way of the warrior’.
In The Book of Five Rings, Musashi explains that every weapon has unique characteristics.
The companion sword, for example, is preferable in confined spaces or when you’re close
to your opponent, as opposed to spears and halberds that are best used on the battlefield
So, even though there’s a wide range of choices and functionalities when it comes
to weaponry, Musashi advises us not to collect or practice with weapons beyond what’s useful.
We can see this as a metaphor for everyday life.
One of the traps that many ambitious people fall into is that they don’t stick with
the essentials that get the job done.
They engage in unnecessary activities, make unnecessary investments, spend unnecessary
amounts of time ‘networking’ with people without making any significant process.
The inability to clearly define what we need to achieve our goals, and stick with doing
what needs to be done, is a recipe for failure.
Sometimes, this involves ruthlessly cutting out the elements that despite their inherent
value and usefulness, are useless in the context of our pursuit.
However, Musashi also argues that we shouldn’t get too attached to one particular way or
method either.
The samurai practiced with a variety of weapons, from swords to sticks, and knew the abilities
and characteristics of each weapon they used, which made them flexible fighters that could
be deployed in different kinds of battles.
I quote:
“You should not have a favourite weapon.
To become over-familiar with one weapon is as much a fault as not knowing it sufficiently well.
You should not copy others, but use weapons which you can handle properly.
It is bad for commanders and troops to have likes and dislikes.
These are things you must learn thoroughly.”
End quote.
So, being successful is a delicate process, and Musashi seems to point to the golden middle
path between having a lack of focus and being too fixated and attached to one thing.

17) Do not fear death.
The awareness of death was an essential part of being a samurai.
Students of the sword were trained to fight duels to the death.
By being subjugated to relentless practice, they were made ready to fight battles and
to be routinely faced with death.
“Generally speaking,” Musashi stated, “the Way of the warrior is the resolute
acceptance of death.”
End quote.
Truly accepting death means not fearing death.
And when we don’t fear death, we won’t give ground when our lives are threatened
in battle.
Thus, on the battlefield or in a duel, the acceptance of death is empowering.
But how about everyday life?
Even though most of us are probably less prone to getting our skulls crushed by a longsword
compared to those who lived in 17th century Japan, death is still lurking in the shadows
everywhere we go.
Life isn’t a fairytale.
We all die, and we could die anytime.
Yet, many of us let the fear of the inevitable generate unnecessary anxiety.
This is unfortunate because as long as we’re still alive, we’re not dead, so in no way
it hinders us.
But when we’re dead, we’re not alive, and we simply don’t know what it’s like,
so we cannot judge whether or not it’s a bad thing to die.
Maybe death is the portal to something much more enjoyable than life, maybe not.
But if death means simply the absence of life, then we’re at least liberated from all of
life’s sufferings.
In short; it’s pointless to worry about death because we don’t know what it is.

18) Do not seek to possess either goods or fiefs for your old age.
It may be clear by now that Musashi was a minimalist.
He lived for honor, victory, perfecting his skill, and contributing to humanity by sharing
his wisdom.
He fought duel after duel, knowing that he could die at the sword of his opponent.
He tells us not to seek to possess either goods or fiefs for old age.
In the modern-day, this could translate to sacrificing our time and energy now in exchange
for possessions, money, and investments that we can enjoy when we’re old.
He doesn’t say that we shouldn’t be concerned with old age at all.
From learning about his life, I’d say that Musashi, despite repeatedly having walked
on the edge between life and death, was quite concerned with the future including the possibility
of longevity.
Otherwise, he wouldn’t have cared about honor or leaving a legacy.
So, to find a deeper meaning behind this lesson, we may want to turn to Buddhism again for
philosophical substance.
The Buddha isn’t against acquiring wealth, as long as we acquire it in wholesome ways,
and use it for good.
But running after wealth takes a lot of effort and can exhaust us and even destroy our health
and overall wellbeing.
So, even though there’s nothing wrong with wealth, we may ask ourselves if achieving
it is the best pursuit available.
Instead, we might want to invest our lives in developing the mind.
In Musashi’s case, this pursuit was embodied by the perfection of his swordsmanship.
But there are other ways available that could potentially be far more fulfilling as well
as reliable than the accumulation of wealth.
Instead of trying to enter old age as rich as possible, a Buddhist might focus on developing
a sense of contentment with the present moment instead.
Because if we can be content with little, we can retire with a small pension.

19) Respect Buddha and the gods without counting on their help.
Following Buddha as a spiritual teacher or believing in God (or other deities), doesn’t
mean that we aren’t responsible for our own lives.
There are many religious and philosophical views on why we exist on this planet.
Some say that we’re here to serve God or multiple gods, others say that our lives are
nothing more than a cosmic joke and that our existence is entirely pointless.
Some claim that the course of our lives is written in the stars, others claim that we
have free will and that our lives are not predetermined.
Whatever the truth might be, we’re still confined to what our senses perceive.
When we look at the nature of human existence from our own viewpoint, we see that we do
have agency.
Moreover, we’re responsible for what we do and don’t do.
Now, what Fortune gives us is beyond our control.
But we do control how we handle what Fortune (or God for that matter) presents to us.
This human ability to choose is an inherent part of most religions.
The Christians have their Seven Virtues, the Muslims have their Five Pillars, and the Buddhists
have their Eightfold Path.
These guidelines and precepts all imply that it’s up to us to choose the right path,
despite the circumstances.
So we can pray to a deity for help, hoping that this will change the unwanted circumstances.
But does it truly work that way?
We better not count on it.
A much better investment is to focus on our own strength, wisdom, and resilience, so we
can deal with the situation at hand, no matter how dreadful.
At the end of the day, we are responsible for our own lives.

20) You may abandon your own body but you must preserve your honor.
The way of the warrior is one of honor, meaning that preserving honor is more important than
preserving one’s life.
But honor is a complicated and subjective concept, which differs from culture to culture.
Roman Catholic missionary Francis Xavier was one of the first Western people to visit Japan,
where he arrived in the year 1550.
He described how the Japanese valued honor as well as warfare and weaponry.
They felt superior to all nations in, and I quote, “military glory and valor and honored
everything that concerned war”.
End quote.
More recent accounts tell us about the spirit of Bushido of the Japanese soldiers who fought
during the Second World War, for whom dying for the Emperor was the greatest honor.
Surrendering to the enemy, however, was considered an act of cowardice.
I quote:
Those who had surrendered to the Japanese—regardless of how courageously or honorably they had
fought—merited nothing but contempt; they had forfeited all honor and literally deserved nothing.
End quote.
At the end of the day, the way we handle honor depends on personal and cultural preferences.
If we think that honor is more important than life, then it’s worth dying for.
But if we don’t care about honor, we probably choose to live over the preservation of it.
According to Musashi, however, the value of honor exceeded life and death.

21) Never stray from the way.
The path of the warrior is one of extreme determination, on which there’s little room
for deviation.
Musashi’s way was the way of the sword, which he dedicated himself to completely and
transcended everything else, including life and death.
Now, the degree of commitment of those who walked the path of the warrior can be considered
‘extreme’, looking at it from a modern Western viewpoint.
These days, true commitment seems rare, as most of us are consumers in a throwaway society,
going from pleasure to pleasure, instead of choosing a more difficult path of sacrifice
and restraint at the service of a higher goal; even if this higher goal could be the quality
of our own life and wellbeing.
But still.
If we truly want to get something done - something significant - we have to commit to a certain
degree.
It’s difficult to get any serious work done when we aren’t dedicated.
This applies to business, relationships, creative projects, or a spiritual path.
It applies to mastering any skill, from cooking to playing an instrument; but also to conquering
bad habits and addictions.
Musashi’s life is a testimony of what we can accomplish if we fully, wholeheartedly
commit to a goal - in his case: sword fighting.
Musashi fought more than sixty duels, many of which were to the death, and he won all
of them.
Furthermore, he left a legacy for centuries to come and he’s honored to this day. 

// Do not pursue pleasure for the sake of pleasure.

//
There is no correlation between IQ and industriousness. The more intelligent you are is not equivalent to being in more control over your impulses.Our brains are flawed, they come with legacy programs and intelligence alone is not able to perfectly suppress them.

// do nothing which is of no use

// discipline is an invitation out of normalcy

// You can't achieve happiness without the journey.

// Altruism(to the right people) is one thing you will never regret.

// To find work you love "do whats valuable". Explore, build skills, solve big pressing problems. 

// Why you should step on your morals with care. Doing whatever it takes for results, achieving you goal, may do damage to you. While goals change, you can't escape yourself. If you injure yourself, or carry a heavy load on your conscience from doing negative things, for your next goals you will be slower. You risk carrying unnecessary burden, that's why a clear conscience is better.
There is more than one way up the mountain. People may suggest doing whatever it takes, because after all you are the one that is going to bear the consequences.

//  ******************************************************************88
	Make a goal and break down the path in little pieces so you can do a bit every day. The progress is 
massively effective because incremental progress compounds with time.
	What could I do today that will help put my life in order that I would do. You have to ask yourself not 
tell yourself. You need to ask under what conditions am I willing to put my life in order what little reward would I need to give myself. You can't take out the whip you will find you are a terrible master and a worse slave. Think about what around you isn't right, make a list, then think about little things that you can do that will orient you in the right direction. Try that for a year before you decide you are a failure. 

*** Once you realize what you need to do and you actually do it then don't beat yourself more than you have to, to learn. A good rule to treat yourself but also in how to treat other people.

// how to not take things personally 
Imagine you are the other person, imagine the reasons he might be acting that way.
When this doesn't work it's time to think about you. Allow yourself to be compassionate and understanding toward yourself because sometimes things just won't work out the way you want them to.

// Don't do a tug of war with your cravings, emotions, or memories just let them play out, if you want offer yourself some compassion. Especially if you are a man, kindness and understanding are in short supply.

// Most of our thoughts are negative, engaging activities are keeping rumination away, make simple actions engaging by focusing. Like zen practitioners. 

// Some species of males destroy themselves during mating season by pursuing their instincts, don't be like that.

// The warrior that reflects
I had this thing in my imagination, an image of a warrior. And he doesn't speak, doesn't move. The only thing he does is reflecting paths that would lead to fulfilling your potential. 

And when you look more closely at this warrior, you can feel how powerful, focused, determined, confident(with a reason behind his confidence), you can see a lot of good things when you look at him. But you also realize he is not a stranger, but a possible future you, if you were to walk on one of the path he reflects.

// Malicious humor, or tendencious humor
It's destructive in nature, puts others down but gives a sense of superiority to the one that engages in this behaviour.

// 
What does cortisol do?

Because most bodily cells have cortisol receptors, it affects many different functions in the body. Cortisol can help control blood sugar levels, regulate metabolism, help reduce inflammation, and assist with memory formulation. It has a controlling effect on salt and water balance and helps control blood pressure.

// 
How to stay calm when you know you'll be stressed

	When you're stressed the brain releases cortisol that modulates adrenaline levels and clouds your 
	thinking. You don't know your thinking is clouding because your thinking is clouded.
	Are there things you can do, systems to put in place to prevent bad decisions under stress.

	Prospective hindsight, premortem:
	
	You look ahead and try to figure out what situations can occur and what you can do to avoid or minimize the damage.

	For example around the home designate a place for things that are easily lost, if you keep stuff in the same place your hippocampus will keep track of this place easily.

	You have to realize when under stress cortisol is released and you no longer think straight, you also won't notice your mind is clouded. When you are confronted with a medical decision you are going to be stressed so try to inform yourself beforehand and ask questions from your medic, try to do the math, how many people are helped if they take this drug, they undergo this surgery etc..

	YOu may change your mind in the heat of the moment but at least you've practiced. When you are stressed the brain releases cortisol, a bunch of systems shutdown(digestive, reproductive, auto-immune) you don't need them in the face of danger. That's why it's not good when they persist too long. 
	//** Also rational, logical thinking shuts down. You need to train ahead for this situations, we are going to fail in the future, the idea is to think ahead and put systems in place that will prevent or minimize damage.

	The guy that forgot his keys called his contractor to install a combination lock with a key at the front door so next time he is not locked outside.

//
Oxytocin boost:
meditation with holding breath and proper breathing
generosity, 
imagine touching close ones
laughter, watch comedy, stand ups remember something funny

// future authoring program Jordan Peterson
When you need to make a decision about a habit that you need to change, acquire or drop, ask two questions:
How would your life be like if I do the positive change, and how would my life be if I don't do the positive change? 

Let's say you want to quit porn.
How would your life be like if you were to quit porn and do something constructive, like pursuing a career you are interested in ?
How would your life be if you don't quit porn and playing games etc.. 
Look at the two futures and ask who would you rather be.


Write for 15 min of how your life would be in 3-5 years if you had what you wanted. Don't be ridiculous about it.


There is a time and place for hedonism, but you have to be careful.

You need a plan for your life, because a plan gives you goals. Imagine going at the range to shoot but you don't have a target, what are you going to do. There is no game, the game is to hit the damn target.

--

Write for 15 min of how your life would be in 3-5 years if you had what you wanted. Don't be ridiculous about it.

You need a plan for your life, because a plan gives you goals. Imagine going at the range to shoot but you don't have a target, what are you going to do. There is no game, the game is to hit the damn target.
---
Jordan Peterson On How To Free Your Soul From The Past

	Write about uncertain, traumatic things, past, present or future. This is a stress reduction mechanism.
Your brain is always trying to figure out how well situated are you in the world. How much do you not know vs how much you mastered. 
	You can tell you mastered things because when you go somewhere things turn out how you wanted them. Your 
brain is keeping track of how many places you went and things worked out vs how many haven't worked out. The things that haven't worked out, you need to map and master. This decreases the existential load on you and also decreases your psycho-physiological load on you, makes you less stressed.

	The future authoring, talks about your past, divide you life in 6 epochs however you want to do it, 
birth to kindergarten, elementary school, junior high school etc.. And then to write about emotionally significant event in each of those epochs and describe their effects on you and analyze how you did in those situations how you might have done differently how you might have done differently in the future to straighten out you past.

	If you are thinking about your past, you haven't analyzed the causal change. There is only one thing you 
remember the past and that is to be prepared for the future.
	You are supposed to look at the past and extract wisdom, ex: "Here is a time I stumbled blindly in this 
ditch and terrible things happened to me". You need to take that apart, analyze and figure out how that events conspired with your participation voluntary or involuntary and what terrible consequence emerged. You need to know why that happened and how you can react differently in that situation. And the soon you do that the anxiety producing parts of your brain are trying to tell you were there are obstacle in your environment.
	The brain is trying to tell you don't go there there is danger, maybe you can master that situation and 
you will be left alone you will master the danger not just be a victim. Lots of situations are dangerous based on you level of mastery. A negative emotion associated with a memory is crying out for mastery.
	You are reorganizing your brain when you write. You can take negative and emotionally loaded memories 
from primordial part of brain and transform them fully articulate visions of your future. And that frees you of your past.
	You can get free from your past by investigation.

// Freedom always comes with responsibility, freedom without responsibility was nothing but laziness.

// meaning
You should behave in such a way that things are good for you, your family, community, environment today and tomorrow. Your brain rewards you with meaning when you do this. Our brains exist between chaos and order, in too much chaos you can't exist it's too dangerous and in too much order there is too much constriction. You stay partly stabilized and partly curios in a way that increases your scope of knowledge. You are enquiering and growing but also stabilizing and renewing you and your family. 

// Procrastination cure
Get more demand for your time, for ex: start a business an learn what it takes to make it work. If we have free time like gas we fill the container, only when the pressure rises we do the things we have to. So by doing more, filling our time we increase pressure.

Increase resistance to the thing that keeps you procrastinating, for example watching youtube. Install an extension that deletes youtube from your search, etc..

Replace the procrastinating activity with something constructive.


// The successful among us delay gratification(they sacrifice)
Video with gorilla and basketball players, you count the number of passes(your goal) 50% of people can't see the gorilla. 
	Goals, ambition blinds us from the nature of reality. They illuminate some but blind you from the rest. 
That's fine, that's how we are. But if you suffer and can't seem to figure out why you might bee to fixed on the point that because of that things are going wrong.


//
Children—perhaps especially teenagers—are hyperaware of hypocrisy. Communication to teens about sex—from media, from parents, from educational institutions—is loaded with mixed messages. Teenagers look perhaps most critically at their parents for hypocrisy and will quickly dismiss a mother’s admonishments if she isn’t following the same advice. And if a mom is acting out sexually, needing too much attention from men, or even focusing too much on romance, girls pick up those messages more than anything else that might be said.
This is not to say that all loose girls have loose-girl mothers, but having a loose-girl mother generally means that the mother is somewhat oblivious, which won’t help her daughter’s emotional health when it comes to sex. Research shows that parents who are insecurely attached—meaning that important bonds were disrupted when they were children—tend to parent in ways that pass on that insecurity to their daughters.14


// how changing your story can change your life

When people tell a story(especially if they are involved) they can't help be subjective. Listen to the story/stories of the other people involved to make a better picture. 

People don't want to change so they scream and shake the bars of their prison cell, not wanting to know that to the left of right is an escape. People prefer the familiar.
People don't want to change their story they want another character in the story to change.
If you want freedom you also have to accept responsibility then you have no choice but change.

Change brings loss of the familiar, even if the familiar is unpleasant or miserable we don't want to let go because we are accustomed to it(we know the character the dialog etc.), but the unknown is scary.

The beginning of our story is hard to edit but rest will become easier.

A part of knowing yourself is to unknown parts of stories you've been telling yourself that are dragging you down. Thats how you walk around those bars.

Start editing stories that don't serve you well. Change yourself.

**************
Look at the supporting characters that help you uphold the wrong version of the story. Watch out for IDIOT COMPASSION, watch out for the people that go along with your story(You're right thats so unfair).

In order to edit our story we need wise compassion, we to receive compassionate truth bombs. If you want to help you must offer compassionate truth bombs. We need to listen to the people involved in the story or else we write the story however we see it fit.

When we tell a story we might omit things consciously or unconsciously because we want to hide or run from some things.

//
“When a concern remains a worry, it’ll look like a wall impossible to climb. However, if you collide with it, it often ends up not being much. The phrase, ‘Life is a tragedy from up close, but a comedy from faraway’, isn’t there for show.”

// How To Beat Fear And Anxiety
Find what you fear decompose it if you can and expose yourself to it, you will become braver.

It is better to pick your burden then be forced into it. If you choose your burden you grow and thrive.

If the stressor is imposed involuntarily the system for aggression and withdraw this is more associated with negative emotion, if the prey animal system gets active it's bad.

If the stressor is voluntarily the system in the brain that is used is the one for approach and challenge this is more associated with positive emotion.

To be fully self-conscious means that you're perfectly aware of your limitations and how you might be hurt. And then to make the decision to move forward into the unknown and the land of the stranger anyways...
That's one of the secrets to a good life.

Observing courage in yourself is one of the things in life that will help you sleep soundly.


// why you can't let go of unfair treatment
Because you are disgusted with yourself, how can you let someone else do this to you, you feel you must retaliate to regain honor, purity.

In societies where there is more danger from disease, poverty etc., the rules are much harsher for social conformity to traditions. There are cultures where if a daughter does not comply to the social conformities she can be killed, because she brings feelings of disgust to her father and family, you can't let anyone know that you tolerate that behaviour and you take it while doing nothing. 


***********
// We are prone to cause trouble when we don't have better things to do. Because trouble is more interesting than boring.
It's not self destruction it's an attempt to change but to do it properly is to let go of resentment and hatred, that's really annoying. Those emotions are easy to engage in and have feelings of self righteousnesses with them. You can leave everything that you don't have to be behind.

//Stop Saying Things That Make You Weak
It was a shock for J Peterson to find out that most of his thoughts were negative. 

// Procrastination is caused by negative feeling. 
The thing you have to do is causing negative feelings so your animal brain either(rationalizes) convinces you to give up or distracts you with hedonism. But not doing the thing you have to do gives you negative emotions and thinking about the thing you have to do also gives you negative emotions.

If we only do the things we have when we are close to the deadline, when the fear of not doing is bigger than the dread of doing, we don't thrive we only survive.

Imagine the story with the plank, on the sidewalk is fine by high up on the skyscrapers the plank is scary. But if the building is on fire the plank seems good and we do it. But this is just survival.

We make things more complicated by adding fears to the task we have to perform, maybe I'm not good enough, maybe I'll fail, what would other think of myself etc.

Who you are now and future you, you view them as different persons. So you can do easily bad stuff now it's the future you problem to handle the wrong things you did.

// One consequence f the lack of self-confidence is a tendency to avoid responsibility, to seek to delegate it upward and to attribute greater authority to superiors in the hierarchy than is in fact merited.


#
"Easy choices, hard life.
Hard choices, easy life."

// Why you should define your fears instead of your goals | Tim Ferriss

So, this happy pic of me was taken in 1999.
I was a senior in college,
and it was right after a dance practice.
I was really, really happy.
And I remember exactly where I was about a week and a half later.
I was sitting in the back of my used minivan
in a campus parking lot,
when I decided
I was going to commit suicide.
I went from deciding to full-blown planning very quickly.
And I came this close to the edge of the precipice.

It's the closest I've ever come.
And the only reason I took my finger off the trigger
was thanks to a few lucky coincidences.
And after the fact,
that's what scared me the most: the element of chance.
So I became very methodical about testing different ways
that I could manage my ups and downs,
which has proven to be a good investment. (Laughs)
Many normal people might have, say, six to 10 major depressive episodes
in their lives.
I have bipolar depression. It runs in my family.
I've had 50-plus at this point,
and I've learned a lot.
I've had a lot of at-bats,
many rounds in the ring with darkness,
taking good notes.

So I thought rather than get up and give any type of recipe for success
or highlight reel,
I would share my recipe for avoiding self-destruction,
and certainly self-paralysis.
And the tool I've found which has proven to be the most reliable safety net
for emotional free fall
is actually the same tool
that has helped me to make my best business decisions.
But that is secondary.
And it is ... stoicism.
That sounds boring.


You might think of Spock,
or it might conjure and image like this --
(Laughter)
a cow standing in the rain.
It's not sad. It's not particularly happy.
It's just an impassive creature taking whatever life sends its way.
You might not think of the ultimate competitor, say, Bill Belichick,
head coach of the New England Patriots,
who has the all-time NFL record for Super Bowl titles.
And stoicism has spread like wildfire in the top of the NFL ranks
as a means of mental toughness training in the last few years.
You might not think of the Founding Fathers --
Thomas Jefferson, John Adams, George Washington
to name but three students of stoicism.
George Washington actually had a play about a Stoic --
this was "Cato, a Tragedy" --
performed for his troops at Valley Forge to keep them motivated.
So why would people of action focus so much on an ancient philosophy?
This seems very academic.
I would encourage you to think about stoicism a little bit differently,
as an operating system for thriving in high-stress environments,
for making better decisions.
And it all started here,
kind of,
on a porch.

So around 300 BC in Athens,
someone named Zeno of Citium taught many lectures
walking around a painted porch, a "stoa."
That later became "stoicism."
And in the Greco-Roman world,
people used stoicism as a comprehensive system
for doing many, many things.
But for our purposes, chief among them was training yourself
to separate what you can control from what you cannot control,
and then doing exercises to focus exclusively
on the former.

This decreases emotional reactivity,
which can be a superpower.
Conversely, let's say you're a quarterback.
You miss a pass. You get furious with yourself.
That could cost you a game.
If you're a CEO, and you fly off the handle at a very valued employee
because of a minor infraction,
that could cost you the employee.

If you're a college student who, say, is in a downward spiral,
and you feel helpless and hopeless,
unabated, that could cost you your life.
So the stakes are very, very high.

And there are many tools in the toolkit to get you there.
I'm going to focus on one that completely changed my life in 2004.
It found me then because of two things:
a very close friend, young guy, my age, died of pancreatic cancer unexpectedly,
and then my girlfriend, who I thought I was going to marry, walked out.
She'd had enough, and she didn't give me a Dear John letter,
but she did give me this,
a Dear John plaque.

I'm not making this up. I've kept it.
"Business hours are over at five o'clock."
She gave this to me to put on my desk for personal health,
because at the time, I was working on my first real business.
I had no idea what I was doing. I was working 14-plus hour days,
seven days a week.
I was using stimulants to get going.
I was using depressants to wind down and go to sleep.
It was a disaster.
I felt completely trapped.

I bought a book on simplicity to try to find answers.
And I did find a quote that made a big difference in my life,
which was, "We suffer more often in imagination than in reality,"
by Seneca the Younger,
who was a famous Stoic writer.
That took me to his letters,
which took me to the exercise,
"premeditatio malorum,"
which means the pre-meditation of evils.
In simple terms,
this is visualizing the worst-case scenarios, in detail, that you fear,
preventing you from taking action,
so that you can take action to overcome that paralysis.
My problem was monkey mind -- super loud, very incessant.

Just thinking my way through problems doesn't work.
I needed to capture my thoughts on paper.
So I created a written exercise
that I called "fear-setting," like goal-setting,
for myself.
It consists of three pages.
Super simple.
The first page is right here.
"What if I ...?"
This is whatever you fear,
whatever is causing you anxiety,
whatever you're putting off.

It could be asking someone out,
ending a relationship,
asking for a promotion, quitting a job, starting a company.
It could be anything.
For me, it was taking my first vacation in four years
and stepping away from my business for a month to go to London,
where I could stay in a friend's room for free,
to either remove myself as a bottleneck in the business
or shut it down.

In the first column, "Define,"
you're writing down all of the worst things you can imagine happening
if you take that step.
You want 10 to 20.
I won't go through all of them, but I'll give you two examples.
One was, I'll go to London, it'll be rainy, I'll get depressed,
the whole thing will be a huge waste of time.
Number two, I'll miss a letter from the IRS,
and I'll get audited
or raided or shut down or some such.
And then you go to the "Prevent" column.
In that column, you write down the answer to:
What could I do to prevent each of these bullets from happening,
or, at the very least, decrease the likelihood even a little bit?
So for getting depressed in London,
I could take a portable blue light with me
and use it for 15 minutes in the morning.

I knew that helped stave off depressive episodes.
For the IRS bit, I could change the mailing address on file with the IRS
so the paperwork would go to my accountant
instead of to my UPS address.
Easy-peasy.

Then we go to "Repair."
So if the worst-case scenarios happen,
what could you do to repair the damage even a little bit,
or who could you ask for help?
So in the first case, London,
well, I could fork over some money, fly to Spain, get some sun --
undo the damage, if I got into a funk.
In the case of missing a letter from the IRS,
I could call a friend who is a lawyer
or ask, say, a professor of law
what they would recommend,
who I should talk to, how had people handled this in the past.
So one question to keep in mind as you're doing this first page is:
Has anyone else in the history of time
less intelligent or less driven
figured this out?
Chances are, the answer is "Yes."

The second page is simple:
What might be the benefits of an attempt or a partial success?
You can see we're playing up the fears
and really taking a conservative look at the upside.
So if you attempted whatever you're considering,
might you build confidence, develop skills,
emotionally, financially, otherwise?
What might be the benefits of, say, a base hit?
Spend 10 to 15 minutes on this.
Page three.

This might be the most important, so don't skip it:
"The Cost of Inaction."
Humans are very good at considering what might go wrong
if we try something new, say, ask for a raise.
What we don't often consider is the atrocious cost of the status quo --
not changing anything.
So you should ask yourself,
if I avoid this action or decision
and actions and decisions like it,
what might my life look like in, say, six months, 12 months, three years?
Any further out, it starts to seem intangible.
And really get detailed -- again, emotionally, financially,
physically, whatever.
And when I did this, it painted a terrifying picture.
I was self-medicating,
my business was going to implode at any moment at all times,
if I didn't step away.

My relationships were fraying or failing.
And I realized that inaction was no longer an option for me.
Those are the three pages. That's it. That's fear-setting.
And after this, I realized that on a scale of one to 10,
one being minimal impact, 10 being maximal impact,
if I took the trip, I was risking
a one to three of temporary and reversible pain
for an eight to 10 of positive, life-changing impact
that could be a semi-permanent.
So I took the trip.
None of the disasters came to pass.
There were some hiccups, sure.
I was able to extricate myself from the business.
I ended up extending that trip for a year and a half around the world,
and that became the basis for my first book,
that leads me here today.

And I can trace all of my biggest wins
and all of my biggest disasters averted
back to doing fear-setting
at least once a quarter.
It's not a panacea.
You'll find that some of your fears are very well-founded.
(Laughter)
But you shouldn't conclude that
without first putting them under a microscope.
And it doesn't make all the hard times, the hard choices, easy,
but it can make a lot of them easier.
I'd like to close with a profile of one of my favorite modern-day Stoics.
This is Jerzy Gregorek.
He is a four-time world champion in Olympic weightlifting,
political refugee,
published poet,
62 years old.

He can still kick my ass and probably most asses in this room.
He's an impressive guy.
I spent a lot of time on his stoa, his porch,
asking life and training advice.
He was part of the Solidarity in Poland,
which was a nonviolent movement for social change
that was violently suppressed by the government.
He lost his career as a firefighter.
Then his mentor, a priest, was kidnapped, tortured, killed
and thrown into a river.
He was then threatened.
He and his wife had to flee Poland, bounce from country to country
until they landed in the US with next to nothing,
sleeping on floors.

He now lives in Woodside, California, in a very nice place,
and of the 10,000-plus people I've met in my life,
I would put him in the top 10,
in terms of success and happiness.
And there's a punchline coming, so pay attention.
I sent him a text a few weeks ago,
asking him: Had he ever read any Stoic philosophy?
And he replied with two pages of text.
This is very unlike him. He is a terse dude.

And not only was he familiar with stoicism,
but he pointed out, for all of his most important decisions,
his inflection points,
when he stood up for his principles and ethics,
how he had used stoicism and something akin to fear-setting,
which blew my mind.

And he closed with two things.
Number one: he couldn't imagine any life more beautiful
than that of a Stoic.

************************************
And the last was his mantra, which he applies to everything,
and you can apply to everything:
"Easy choices, hard life.
Hard choices, easy life."
The hard choices --
what we most fear doing, asking, saying --
these are very often exactly what we most need to do.
And the biggest challenges and problems we face
will never be solved with comfortable conversations,
whether it's in your own head or with other people.
So I encourage you to ask yourselves:
Where in your lives right now
might defining your fears be more important than defining your goals?
Keeping in mind all the while, the words of Seneca:
"We suffer more often in imagination than in reality."
Thank you very much.

// 
Sometimes aspiring business people select advisors and the
relationship doesn't work out. Should a marriage prove not to be
made in heaven, how will you respond? Will you play the blame
game, assigning responsibility for things gone wrong to this advisor
who's proven less than satisfactory? Perhaps, in truth, you didn't plan
carefully enough in the first place and you selected a poor advisor.

****** People who point fingers don't learn from their mistakes. *************

If you're in genuine pursuit of financial freedom, you have to take
responsibility for an advisor who doesn't work out. This doesn't mean
blaming yourself. Blaming yourself is no different than blaming the
advisor. In any event, whose fault it is doesn't matter in the scheme
of things. Rather than blaming, you should simply part ways with the
advisor, admit to yourself that something went awry, and move on.

In a fledgling business enterprise, whenever you fall you have to get
back on your feet, dust yourself off, and forge ahead. You have to be
more like Thomas Edison, who tried 10,000 different experiments
before he finally succeeded in inventing the light bulb. In Edison's
mind, he hadn't failed 10,000 times-instead, he'd discovered 10,000
ways not to invent a light bulb.


AND THINK BIG
In the end, the reward of your Rich Dad journey is not only the
freedom that money buys but also the confidence you gain in
yourself-for they are really one and the same.
The reason most people stop and turn back from their dreams is that
the tiny person inside them beats the person who is bigger. Work
daily to be bigger than your smallness. Even though you still may not
be good at everything, if you keep on striving your world will change.
Never run from what you need to learn. Face your ignorance, your
fears, and your doubts. Make mistakes and then learn from them.


"Goals have to be clear, simple, and
in writing. if they aren't in writing
and reviewed daily, they aren't really
goaIs-- they're wishes.."

// Build Discipline Without Willpower
Align the things you need to do with your emotions that means you need to align them with your beliefs.

1 Become aware of your beliefs that hold you back "Why am I not going to the gym ?". What are the thoughts that keep you back.

2 Seek truth
Instead of focusing on implementing the right behavior.
Focus on understanding the importance of the behaviour you want to implement.

For example you want to quit smoking, if you study and see pictures and videos and hear from friends or family of the bad outcomes of smoking(like having a friend tell you he has lung cancer from smoking), if you align your belief with this bad behaviour you may quit easily.

Understand the truth the deep core of the activity. Build the emotional understanding of the activity.

// It is not because things are difficult that we do not dare, it is because we do not dare that they are difficult.

// tlc depression cure

But first we need to consider the most important reason why the rate of depression relapse is so high: Our risk factors tend to remain stable over time. For example, with few exceptions,14 our genes and our gender don’t change. And while you might think that behavior can change like the wind, it actually stays surprisingly consistent for most people. Those who avoid exercise today will probably still be sedentary tomorrow—and next week, and next month, and next year, and the year after that, and so on. Likewise are those who tend to ruminate, those who stay chronically sleep-deprived, those who fail to invest in social relationships, and those who eat too few omega-3 fats. Without a high level of motivation and commitment—and (in many cases) a little outside help†—most of us simply keep repeating the same unhelpful patterns of behavior, despite our good intentions to the contrary.

Another dangerous trap to avoid with friends and loved ones is excessive reassurance seeking. Although the quest for reassurance can sometimes take the form of a direct question (“Do you really want to spend time with me?”), in many cases it’s more subtle: putting oneself down in order to hear the reassurance that reliably follows. For example, every time Becky beat herself up—“I’m not much fun to be around”; “I hate being such a burden”; “I’m ruining your day”—her friend responded with words of support and encouragement. Such reassurance can be addictive, especially for someone who’s already feeling insecure (as most depressed patients are), and it can “program” people to become even tougher on themselves. (It’s not a conscious strategy on their part, by the way; those with depression are not consciously thinking, 
******
“I’ll criticize myself so people will say nice things about me”—but the reliable connection between self-criticism and reassurance registers with the brain, which often guides future behavior on an unconscious level.)

****************************************
THE BEST OF INTENTIONS

 
We are all creatures of habit. The brain’s reward pathways light up with pleasure every time we indulge in one of our habitual behaviors, no matter what it happens to be—reading the paper, flossing teeth, walking the dog, making the bed, and so on. That’s why we find it so hard to change our typical way of doing things. Keeping our usual m.o. is usually much more rewarding than adopting a new one. (It takes a few weeks of real effort before any new behavior turns into a full-fledged habit—after which it finally becomes rewarding and, thus, self-sustaining.)
 
The bottom line: Lifestyle change is much easier said than done. Think about the millions of people who resolve each year to start working out, to eat healthily, to stop smoking, to watch less TV, or to get more sleep—and how few succeed. If lifestyle change were simple, we wouldn’t be facing an epidemic of obesity, with two-thirds of American adults now overweight.
 
Compound this difficulty with the fact that depression makes it particularly hard for someone to initiate new activity. As we’ve seen, the disorder shuts down circuits in the left frontal cortex, By all rights, then, Therapeutic Lifestyle Change might look like some sort of cruel pipe dream—something that sounds great on paper but that proves impossible to put into practice in the real world. And yet I’ve watched countless depressed individuals find a lasting cure by making the TLC program a central part of their lives. How did they succeed?
 
In most cases, they had help. They needed help. While I’ve known a few dozen people over the years who’ve been able—completely on their own—to put the TLC protocol into practice after simply hearing about it (in a newspaper or magazine article or a talk I’d given), such individuals are the exception, not the rule. Typically, their depressive symptoms were on the milder end of the continuum, so they still had enough energy and initiative to make the necessary changes.
 
So, if you’ve failed on your own to make some of the therapeutic lifestyle changes described in The Depression Cure, please know that you’re not alone. Among the clinically depressed, such difficulties are par for the course. But with the help of some good coaching, you’re still likely to benefit from everything in the TLC protocol—omega-3 supplementation, anti-ruminative activity, aerobic exercise, sunlight exposure, increased social support, and healthy sleep.

You simply need to find someone who can help you translate your intentions into action. By gently encouraging you each step along the way as you put the protocol into practice, a TLC coach can, in effect, play the role of your left frontal cortex—shoring up your ability to initiate the changes you’ve already committed to making.
 

Because depression is literally a form of physical illness, it makes sense that the disorder can sometimes be caused by another serious medical condition. 

// Free of negative thoughts
Are my thoughts beneficial to me ? How do the behave ? 


// Psychotherapeutic alliance
You come to me because something is wrong and you want to be better, you are willing to talk about it honestly. I don't know what's wrong or why but we are going to find that out together. Without this the
therapeutic relationship does not exist.

***** A real relationship is therapeutic or else it's not a relationship. ******
Assuming a minimal mutual willingness to be in contact and to receive communication.
We may say that the greater the communicated congruence of experience, awareness and behavior on the part of one individual, the more the ensuing relationship will involve a tendency toward reciprocal communication with the same qualities.

Mutually accurate understanding of the communications, improved psychological adjustment and functioning in both parties and mutual satisfaction in the relationship.

The whole point of talking, listening, sharing is not to convince the opposition that you are correct but merely to have an exchange of experience about how things are set up. 


// 
You worry when you have nothing to do, your mind fill that time with worrying. Do some physical exercise or some other task.

// When you have to do hard things and you have to face and overcome problems. Inspired by David Goggins.
Imagine yourself in your past victories and allow those feelings to fuel you.
Imagine how you will be after you achieved the hard thing that you are planning or trying to accomplish. 
Create an image of you as a worthy person, someone that your are trying to become imagine how good you are going to feel as that person.


// 3 lessons on decision-making from a poker champion

When you win don't get cocky, check on larger sample size if you are really good or is it jut ego and ignorance.

Success is sweetest when you achieve it across a large sample size.

Your gut is your friend(for things like: could I park in tight spot ?, i can feel my friend is angry at me ) so is a cost-benefit analysis.

The future is unknown but you can damn well try to estimate it.

// Pleasure != happiness
We confuse what we want with what we need.
	By giving into compulsions to feel pleasure we enslave ourselves and we limit higher level of human 
experience. Society(I think merchants also had a big influence) tells us "It's all about you.". You should derive as much pleasure from life,consume as much media as possible, buy all kinds of things, be as popular and as wealthy as possible, social media etc.. Unfortunately there are deeper things that are ignored. 

	We should feel good all the time and turn away from anything that requires vulnerability, deep 	
challenging thought, sadness or self-honesty. The things that burn us are always vibrating inside of us and we chose to pretend they are not there by veiling them with distractions. We neglect to treat them, connect with others, better understand ourselves and improve our lives. We get hypnotized by technology and entertainment and we find ourselves just distracted enough to be comfortable in our discomfort.
	Social media and entertainment by themselves are not bad but they can be too much and we lose control. 
	When something seems so much better than real life it becomes addictive and we tend to indulge too much.
	
	It becomes an escape from the things we must address in life. Instead of dealing with life stresses in a 
healthy ways (facing and overcoming) we pretend they don't exist and turn to ways of life that are not sustainable or helpful.

	There is value in effort, vulnerability and selflessness. 
	There are parts in life that are not pleasurable but rewarding.
	Parts where you feel small but part of something bigger.
	Parts that are not entertaining but important.

	What we must remember is to not always follow our desires and ease. Instead force ourselves to face our demons, challenge ourselves.


// Matajuro one of the greatest swordsmen
Instead of being inpatient and worrying about becoming a sword master. Matajuro learned to find beauty in each movement, blow, action that one requires in order to become a swordsman.
In your own life you need to find the beauty in every moment, whether it is making the bed, cleaning, doing dishes or just hard labor. Live in each moment completely. That way you will take with you from every moment for the rest of your life.


// get out of rut
If you are to harsh on the primal part of your brain it will lash out. You need to use your higher judgement to provide compassion and guidance to your primal part and win it over. 

Use small things that you can easily accomplish to get the ball rolling and do harder things. After you do something constructive take it easy, take a break, reward yourself, relax have a good time.

Progressive overload: going through an intense period of doing physical and or mental activities and then have the ancient brain lash out is not good. Better start small, do everyday, reward yourself and progress step by step. Just looking at your progress the brain will reward you. Compare yourself to who you were yesterday instead of someone else.

Make a plan for the week, make doable. Manage expectations, be patient with yourself. Higher faculties have to be in synergy with the primal and emotional side of brain. That way you can sustain the life you want to be living.


// THE STORY OF THE FATHER AND THE SON, quotes
I want you to live your life with a goal, but if you remain to focused on the goal then you will miss out the real treasures of life.
Life has no goal at all other than to just experience it and grow with every single day.


// A Clear Conscience Is Better Than Happiness | Jordan B Peterson , keeps remorse away.

Many people are made to feel hopeless, depressed, anxious, and overwhelmed by life’s suffering. You need something to shield yourself from that. Meaning is that shield.

*********************************************************************************************************
* Meaning is the instinct that helps you to guide yourself through catastrophe, and it can be found in the adoption of responsibility. This is a constant refrain in my book, 12 Rules for Life.
*********************************************************************************************************

********************************************************************************************
--------------------- Catastrophe ------------------ Catastrophe ---------------------------
********************************************************************************************

	When you think about the times when you were at peace with yourself in regard with how you conducted yourself in society, it's always in conditions when you adopted responsibility. 

	The most guilt you can experience perhaps is the sure knowledge that you are not even taking care of yourself. So you leave that responsibility to other people, you rely on other people to support you, that's pretty pathetic.

	You are not only not being what you could be, you are also interfering with what SOMEONE ELSE could be.

	Most of the time you are in guilt and shame, not only are you not taking care of yourself so someone else has to, but you are not living to your full potential and the is an existential WEIGHT.

	You are not a void but a drain. You might not want to see it.

	The act of spontaneously admiring someone is the manifestation of instinct for meaning.

	That's why people are enamored by sports figures, because the sport figures play out the drama of attaining the goal. That's why people like certain games, anime, manga.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
********************************************************************************************

Don't Mistake Kindness For Weakness

Be kind it will pay in the future.
Story: Navy Seal had to book flight for an admiral, he started by talking nice how you doing and stuff. When he asked where they were staying he would complain about how the boss was hard on him making the other person relate, and the person working for the airline would try to help by improving their seat. If you have a habit of not being kind or polite, the other person at the airline will tell you that your are not even on this flight.


// Left by themselves things only go worse.


Most of us tend to wear intellectual
blinders, often failing to recognize
something until we first have an
explanation for it . . . or at least, an
expectation of it. Believing is seeing.
—Barash and Lipton,
The Myth of Monogamy

// David Foster Wallace - The Problem with Irony
Cynicism and irony good at pointing and dissecting but that's it.

Since to be really human is probably to be unavoidably sentimental and naive and goo-prone and generally pathetic.


// Land of the losers

// Pop Psychology
Any pop-psychologist will tell you that if your partner often (groundlessly) accuses you of cheating on him or her, then it probably means that your partner is the type of person that would be likely to cheat on you. Their explanation being that your partner’s fears are a projection of their own temptation to cheat.
One of my friends, Artie, was married and divorced by age 32. He told me about his experiences:

If you’re going to suggest that I should seek professional help, don’t bother – I’m way ahead of you. I did see a psychologist for a while, and I didn’t get sent straight to the looney bin either. In fact, Dr. Lipsitz agreed with me on many of my observations. She (yes, Dr. Lipsitz is a woman) acknowledged that women often place unreasonable expectations on men, and that women’s own insecurities often drive them towards men who don’t treat them with respect. She said my angrier emotions stemmed directly from my frustrations in dealing with women, which had built up over a long period of time. As if I needed to pay $200 an hour for that piece of information. Anyway, she offered no solutions for me other than to “be yourself and just do things that make you happy in the meantime.” For what it’s worth, she approved of my decision to move to Japan if I thought I could find happiness and a gainful future there. So, I did seek psychological help, but it largely served to reinforce my convictions.

/
She said it in a very perfunctory way. Certainly not in a way that conveyed any actual gratitude. I got the distinct impression that she’d only gone through the motion of saying “thanks” because she thought it was the best way to get me to go away. In hindsight, I should have just cut my losses and walked back inside to my friends.
Ladies? Here’s a tip: When a man buys you a drink, it is an invitation to a conversation. That’s why he’s buying you the drink. If you aren’t interested in having a conversation, then don’t accept the drink. You are not owed a drink, just as I am not owed a conversation. It’s quite simple, really. Furthermore, I think you already know this perfectly damn well but you don’t care.

/
America: Love It and Leave It

So why shouldn’t I flee the anti-male bigotry which is so pervasive in American society? I’m not exaggerating when I say this: American males do live under circumstances equivalent to bigotry, only we’ve been raised to “take it like a man.” Trying to interact normally with American women is almost like aversion therapy. As I’ve said many times before, I live in a society where it is peachy-keen for a woman to knee me in the balls and spout hate in my face. A female co-worker could demolish any man’s career by uttering a false accusation that would be impossible for him to disprove. Distressingly, neither men nor women seem inclined to fight for real equality instead of the selective, lopsided, faux-equality crap that American women have designed for their own exclusive benefit. I don’t want to live among misandric bigots, dammit!


Moving to Japan

My third motivation for leaving the United States was to escape the anti-male bigotry that continues to flood every aspect of life there. That’s Real Reason Number Three.


// Why You're Always Tired Between 1pm - 4pm (and what to do about it)
The afternoon slump is part of the circadian rhythm
You can mitigate it by taking short 10-20 min nap, no longer than 20 min or else you will fall in deep sleep.
Also you can take a break.
How to take a break:
	* Detachment, think about something else that is not demanding, or think of nothing
	* Movement
	* Get outside and also take a walk
	* Company, talk with friends outside


// what gets people to change your behavior
	Warnings and threats have hard time to make people to act. Warnings have limited effect, why ? When you
induce fear in an animal you get freezing and fleeing, fighting not as much. We want to avoid, get away from negative things. Humans are similar but we also use rationalization to fool ourselves. My grandpa smoked he lived till 90 I have his genes I will be fine. This process makes you more resistant to warnings, to negative things. 
	Sometimes negative things make us put our head in the ground. In the case of the stock market, people 
check their account when the market goes well to feel good, when it gets bad the logged less. People didn't want to look when it was bad to avoid negative feelings. Only when the market started to crash did they log on mass.
	In our lives we have bad behaviour now.
	Now:
		Procrastinating
		Smoking & drinking
		Climate change
		BAd mortgages
		Political Instability
		Cracks in relationship

	Those bad things can POTENTIALY lead to this.
	Later:
		Miss deadline
		Health problems
		Natural disasters
		Market crash
		Civilian Death
		Divorce

	Because the future is uncertain we say what's the point in worrying now, bad things might not happen to 
us until it's to late to intervene. 

	People change their belief toward the most desirable opinion.

	If a doctor gave us an advice and he tells us we have 60% chance of diabetes and if we get a second 
opinion where the doctor tells us we have 40% of diabetes. We change our belief toward the positive information. When people get the first advice they think they will have about 50% chance of diabetes and after they listen to the second advice they think they have about 45% chance. People listen to the positive information.

	The ability to learn from good news stays almost unchanged our whole life.

	The ability to learn from bad news changes as you age.It is low when you are young or old. It's highest 
between 30's and 50's.

	People take in more information that they want to hear more than information that they don't. People see 
themselves in a better way they really are. If we try to put a clear mirror and point at the reality it won't work because the brain will distort the image. 
	If we work with the good image we will get better results, if we went with how the brain works and not 
against it.

	Hospital experiment: scientists studied if medical staff washed their hands before and after visiting a 
patient. They installed cameras, the staff knew about the cameras, compliance rate about 10%. Even if they knew that risk of infection is lower with clean hands warnings do not work well.
	Three principals were used to increase compliance.

	Electronic boards were introduced that showed how well you were doing in public. Compliance rate > 90% 

	The first principle, social incentives, we are social creatures, we care what other people are doing and 
we want to do it better. A signal is sent to the emotional center of the brain when we hear the opinions of others. There is a response in the brain when you hear the opinion of others that leads to change. This signal can predict how likely you are to change for the better. The British government sent a letter to people who "forgot" to pay taxes: If you don't pay taxes bad things will happen bla bla ... and in the end it was written 9 out 10 British people pay taxes on time. This raised compliance by more than 15%. Highlighting what other people are doing is a strong incentive.

	The second principle, immediate reward. The board showed fast how well you were doing and it made them 
feel good, it was immediate reward. This works because we value rewards that we can get now than rewards in the future. We care about the future, we want to be happy, wealthy, fit, successful in the future but the future is so far away, maybe you behave badly now and you will be fine in the future or maybe you will be dead.
	The here and now you will rather have the drink, the steak and the fries now in the tangible future. You 
are choosing something sure now than something uncertain in the future.

	Third principle, progress monitoring.
	If you reward people now for doing things that are good for them in the future. Studies show that people 
are more likely to quit smoking, start exercising. Not smoking, exercising is associated with a reward and this becomes a habit, a lifestyle. 
	The brain does a good job at efficiently coding positive information about the future. Also it does not 
do a good job at processing negative information about the future. 
	****	If you want to get peoples attention you want to highlight the progress not the decline. So 
instead of telling the kid that smokes that you might die from cancer, tell him you will be better at sports, you will smell better and be more attractive to girls. Highlight the progress not the decline.


// Mel Robbins 5 sec decision

You will never feel like doing the stuff you need to do, never go for that promotion, never apply for that job etc.. No one will save you, no one will appear out of nowhere and help you. A lot of things you will have to force yourself to do. Don't be "Oh that's not gonna work don't even try it. You have no idea you haven't tried."

5 sec decision can help you
We have impulses for example you want to talk to that cute girl, you want to answer to a question in a meeting etc. but the more you wait the more you talk yourself out of it. The brain has three major functions 
1. It keep our systems working, regulating body to keep us alive
2. When we are sleeping one part of the brain shuts down the other parts catalogues so that you can have memories.
3. It tries to protect us by magnifying risk, so we talk ourselves of doing things including the ones we know that are beneficial.


Stop thinking about stuff and wanting to do stuff but not doing them. Become the person that makes things happen. Look inside figure out what and who you are, what is your wisdom and follow it.


//Daily Consistency = Massive Results: THE COMPOUND EFFECT by Darren Hardy

Small but smart decisions that are in alignment with our core values, made consistently eventually pay of.
By doing things in alignment with your core values you quiet the monkey mind.

Even tough the results are massive, the steps, in the moment, don't feel significant. The changes are so subtle, they're almost imperceptible.

Sometimes knowing that we make good choices isn't enough, to know that we are on the right path, the compound path we need to focus in measuring the percent gains not the net gains.
Humans underestimate what we can produce in years of sustained effort.

If you had to chose between two jobs:
Job 1: 30 min/day but have to show improvement each week, 10$/week 10% weekly compound growth
Job 2: 30 min/day no improvement necessary 5000$/month zero compound growth 5000/month

Accumulated revenue:			Friends and family
51 		-month 1- 	5000
126 	-month 2- 	10,000
235		-month 3- 	15,000
15,541 	-month 12- 	60,000  	What a stupid decision

86,762 	-month 16- 80,000
186,108	-month 18- 90,000		It's about damn time
2,219,271 -month 24- 120,000 	Family and friends dumbfounded

//
Do the things that are beneficial for you (even though they release low dopamine) and reward yourself with high dopamine releasing activities AFTER you finished your boring activities and at the END of the day.
If you reward yourself immediately the high dopamine reward will make you unmotivated.

Example: for 1h of productive activity you get 15 of high dopamine activity, if your pleasure is to drink and smoke chose something less damaging like playing a game, or browsing the Internet.

It is good to have a day where you have a dopamine detox, don't do activities that give you high dopamine. Meditate, walk, contemplate, exercise. 

When you do activities that release a lot of dopamine you will have a hard time doing activities that release less. That's why you might want to limit your phone and computer usage and other similar high dopamine releasing behaviour. 

If you eat plain rice after you are used to fancy restaurant food it will taste nasty. If you eat it when you are starving it's like you are in heaven.

// 
Romanticism sold the idea that true lovers understand each other without speaking. This is very stupid and leads to a lot of bad situations, especially when one or both partners sulk. You have to speak to each other learn and adapt for a better relationship.


// How to speed learn Josh Kaufman
	1 Establish what your goal is, what is it going to look like when you're done ?

	2 Deconstruct the skill. Most of the things that we think of as skills are bundles of subskills. Instead 
	of learning the global skill you break it into subskills and learn the most important ones. Things that you are going to use first.

	3 Research. Research just enough to identify the most important subskills but also understand and 
	self-correct as you are practicing. Find 3-5 books, courses, dvd, trainers, people, resources,
	
	Don't allow the research to become a form of procrastination. Pick 3-4-5 sources, you skim them. Identify the ideas that come over and over again. Those are the things that you should know, so you can self-correct as you practice.

	4 Remove barriers to practice. During the practice process you don't allow distractions. The time spent practicing is as undivided and focused as possible.

	5 Pre-commit for at least 20 hours of focused practice before you begin.
	It's just focused strategic effort invested in something you care about.
	Each day take the time to learn 30-45


// 
Whether it be studying or training, just putting in effort wasn't enough. To put it bluntly, one had to put in effort well.


// Parkinson's Law
If you have a week to finish the task, it will take a weak. If you have a year, it will take a year.
You will fill most of that time with procrastination and only close to the deadline you will start to work.
Do the task as soon as possible, be realistic with your deadlines. If the task takes 5 days making a deadline for 3 is not going to help you.
If there is no deadline you have no fire, no fire, no emergency to get the job done.




// philosophy of happiness from boy with progeria
	1. Instead of feeling bad for the things you can't do, focus on the things that you can.
	
	2. Surround yourself with people that are good for you, friends and family that care about you and are 
	not fake. Love your friends, family, mentors, community.
	
	3.Walt Disney: I always try to have something to look forward to, something to stride for to make my 
life richer. It doesn't have to be big, it could be anything from the next comic book to come out or going out in family vacation, or going out with friends.


// Jordan Peterson ~ Never Ignore Small Signs Of Coming Betrayal

	Do micro adjustments to anomalies in your life, figure out what happened and adjust. Better small 		
	changes than big changes. Small changes prevent total collapse.

	The act of morality becomes: Paying sufficient attention so that corrective act occurs.
	
	Let's say you notice your partner is flirting a little more than usual, you notice it but don't do nothing, instead of having a small fight you might end up with a end of relationship fight. Then you are going to ask how did this happened, and realize the signs were there all along you just chose to ignore it.


	If you investigate the things you don't want to have happened and you investigate the things you didn't expect. You do that as soon as they come up. What happens is you are going to change your perceptions a bit that will culminate in the structure bellow will change. 

What 																			
The unbearable present->                                                     

A planned sequence of behaviour


Hope/Pleasure
Promise
Predicted outcome | Unpredicted outcome
					Threat(promise)
					Anxiety (hope)

Generate new sequence

What should be
-> The ideal future

	You are improving your ability to perceive and to act, you are also gathering information to shift your perspective for a better future. Where are you going and why ? Even if you have a long term plan there is no reason to assume your plan is correct, even though there is no reason to assume that you can do without one. So you are living in a bounded space, and the bounded space is going to produce errors and it's also going to transform over time you use it. By transforming it continuously over time even what's it aimed at, you avoid collapse. 


// Effective practice
	High performers practice multiple times a day, with breaks. Intense sessions and practicing what they 
were not good at.
	The myelin sheet got thicker and this makes the neuron signal faster and stronger.
	Mental practice after you learned the movement is also very good practice.
	It is better to start slow and then work your way from there. Build foundation than increase speed.


// jordan peterson Career vs. motherhood: Are women being lied to?

Career is not as fulfilling as advertised

In life you have 4 things 

Career and education to be useful in society and have a meaning
Friends
Family parents, siblings, children etc.
Relationship


// learn
	When you learn write questions and figure out the answers. The questions can't be broad because the answers must be concise.

	First comprehend then memorize.

	Practice questions, tests etc..

	Schedule your learning when your energy and focus is high.

//
Ask three questions and reflect on them : 
	What is making me anxious ?
	What has caused me pain and how ?
	What is exiting me ?

// Learn fast
* Flip through each page, you look at what it is you are going to learn, see the pictures, how long is the chapter etc., you won't read.
* Go to end of the chapter and look for the quiz, you do this to keep in mind what to look for.
* Read the bold print, because it's important. The titles, the subtitles etc..
* First and last sentence of each paragraph. The first sentence is an overview, the last sentence helps you summit up. You are reading for exposure. 
You do this make a map of the dots, all that's missing is the context to connect the dots. Your brain is prepared for what he's going to get.


// 
He who has never suffered will not sufficiently temper his character.
A warrior must only take care that his spirit is never broken.
It may seem difficult at first but everything is difficult at first.
Toil and risk are the price of glory, but it is a great thing to live with courage and leaving an everlasting fame.
To hold it together when everyone else would understand if you fell apart, that's true strength.
Be were life is more terrible than death, it is then the truest valor to dare to live.
Truth is not what you want it to be; it is what it is, and you must bend to it's power or live a lie.


To win any battle, you must fight as if you are already dead.
Sweat more during peace, bleed less during war.
Determine that today you will overcome yourself of the day before, tomorrow you will win over those of lesser skill, and later you will win over those of greater skill.

//
A life of simplicity is a life of sanity, too much information from our current technology is slowly eating our sanity. Just living in the city participating in the race for success can be draining on your mental health.


The problem with cultural wisdom is that it turns out not to be very wise(your mom and dad can actually be wrong).

Happiness
	Marriage, money, children.

The right marriage brings happiness for about 15 years.

Money brings happiness but only to a certain point. If you are poor earning money until you are middle class brings great happiness, more than that the curve on the graph gets flat.
Economists will tell you if you have a lot of money and you are not happy you are spending it wrong.

Doing nothing does not bring a lot of happiness.It's about as pleasurable as working. Ex.: when I have a lot of money I will retire get a boat and sit all day, it's not going to work.

Sources of happiness:
									-
									-
									-
									-
									-
							-		-
					-		-		-
		-			-		-		-
-		-			-		-		-		  -
- 		-			-		-		-		  -
Work 	Commute 	TV 		Talk 	Sex 	  Rest


Happiness Children:

	
	-
	-			 
	-			-
	-			-				
	-			-				-
	-			-				-
Non-parents		Parents 	Parents with minor children

People are happy before their first children, then the happiness goes down. They may also be happy when the children move out.


Women with children happiness:

	-
	-
	-												
	-												
	-			   -								
	-			   -								
	-			   -								
	-			   -		-						
	-			   -		-						-
	-			   -		-			-			-
	-			   -		-			-			-			
Talking with 	Eating 	Grocery 	Doing 		Being with
  friends				Shopping	Housework 	Children

How happy are women with children ? About as happy when they scrub the toilet. Not even as enjoyable as buying the things you need to scrub the toilet.

On average children are having a small, but noticeable negative effect on parents.

Children make women slightly more unhappy than men.

Children are hard work, they require a lot of things. Parents give blood, sweat, tears, money to raise them. If you have these things to give(resources) then children are great sources of happiness, else children are hard work and hard work does not make people happy. 

Conclusion on happiness of marriage, money, children

Marriage ... yes, but only if it's a good one
Money ... yes, but a little buys a lot & a lot buys a little more
Children ... yes for some, but not for most

In most languages the word for happiness is related to the word luck. Why ? Because happiness was about good luck.

For the first time in human history, happiness is in our reach. We no longer live the same as our ancestors exposed to so many dangers.

For cultures regularly subject to upheavals and twists of fate—from the descent of plague to the appearance of a marauding army to the onset of famine or the wrath of one’s betters—it was difficult to imagine happiness as something that could endure, still less as something that one could control. Happiness, rather, was in the hands of the gods,m eted out by fortune, or forged in the crucible of fate. And though the prosperous might better hedgeagainst uncertainty than the poor, even they were not immune to the upheavals and sudden reversals that inevitably threatened us all. As ancient Chinese sages cautioned, misfortune was fortune’s twin. That reflection figures in some of the earliest extant writings of China, and it was repeated down through the ages. 
	As the Daoist philosopher Lao Tsu observed around 500 BCE: “Misfortune is that
which beside fortune lies. 
	Artabanus of Persia, as interpreted by the Greek historian Herodotus in the 6th century BCE, echoed this
wisdom, but in even darker tones, voicing assumptions that were shared in many cultures.
Short as [the human life] is, there is not a man in the world, either here or elsewhere, who is happy
enough not to wish – not once only but again and again – to be dead rather than alive. Troubles
come, diseases afflict us, and this makes life, despite its brevity, seem all too long (Herodotus,
2003).

The reckoning was grim, reflecting a view of the world as at once hostile and unpredictable, in which
suffering was the norm. It was a world governed by forces beyond our control. And in such a world,
happiness must be elusive and fleeting. To conceive of it otherwise—as something that could endure in a
world of change—would be to imagine a supreme, even superhuman, achievement, happiness as something
divine.

For millennia we relied on the wisdom of our cultures, we love our parents but they might not be the ones to teach us about nuclear fission or nano scale batteries. For facts about the world we should turn to science.


Surfing the urge:
	Denying the thing we want to do but know we shouldn't. Denying works like a rubber band, it stretches and then comes back with a lot of force all at once.

	If we feel bored or lazy and we want to do something else that we know we shouldn't do, when we try to tell no to ourselves, don't blame other things like it was the phone or facebook etc., neither should you shame yourself(there's something wrong with me, I'm not cut out for this job etc). This causes more internal triggers produces more discomfort, which makes us seek more distractions.
	
	What do we do then.
	Emotions feel like are going to last forever but are like waves, they crest and subside.
	When we feel the urge to do the things we know we shouldn't do(eating the cake, surfing the web or watch youtube, facebook), how do we defuse the situation: we SURF THE URGE. 

	We become curious not contemptuous.
	For 10 minutes we give in to our distraction but we only reflect on that sensation, we feel that sensation with curiosity rather than contempt and talk to ourselves with self-compassion, like talking to a good friend or get back to task at hand. 

Too many choices or irrelevant options can cause hesitation, confusion, or worse abandonment.

Stay focused on your values. Stay focused on what is most important to you.
Don't let what is happening around you distract you, from you.
Don't give drama any time and attention.

The mind will not focus until it has clear objectives.
But the purpose of goals is to focus your attention and give you DIRECTION, not to identify a final destination.

Sow a thought, and you reap an act;
Sow an act, and you reap a habit;
Sow a habit, and you reap a character;
Sow a character, and you reap a destiny.


To adapt yourself in life you should find a niche that corresponds to your temperament. After you've done that you work on the things opposite your temperament. So if you are extroverted at parties learn to shut up and notice whats going on, if you are introverted learn how to speak in public, learn to speak at a party.

When choosing a partner be careful not to chose someone who is to distal in the temperamental behaviour because you're going to have a hard time bridging the gap. It's hard for introverted and extroverted person to coexist, and orderly and disorderly person drive each other nuts( why don't you pick up, why are you so obsessed by it). Know your temperament so you can negotiate with your partner. You shouldn't look for someone too similar but also not to different because you may hit irreconcilable differences. For ex. couples that are high and low in openness, high and low in conscientiousness .


The life on social media is just the highlights of other peoples life. Their life also contains mundane stuff it's just not shown on social media. When you compare your life with the life of other people on social media you will just be miserable.


Visualize(and imagine how would you feel) achieving your goals, visualize improving yourself and doing the stuff you want( speak your idea at the meeting, get better at what you do, ask for a raise ). By visualizing and imagining how would you feel when you do or achieve things, you are creating new memories of you doing those things because your brain does not know they are not real. Our brain has a filter(reticular activating system) that lets only things we agree with, when you visualize you change the filter. Visualizing doing things can make you better at those things. If you believe people don't like you, your filter will let in only information that confirms your belief. If you imagine different you can train you brain, you are changing the filter. And then your brain will look for opportunities to spot evidence that you are confident, that you are capable.

There is a part of your brain that is responsible for exploring and learning new things. When you are bored of your work and you want to do something else the brain is telling you to explore, find, experience new things. If you have a small business for ex. making shoes, you make the whole shoe and you keep learning new things about making a shoe, you improve your craft, a customer may come to the shop, you talk to him, measure him etc., you return to the shoes you work on a different component of the shoe etc. Because you do different things you are engaged but in big business the work is chopped in simple pieces and you do the same thing over and over again until you are bored or repulsed.

Attention is the key to transfer information into long term memory and creating connections. Create a mind where distraction is not the default mode. Humans addicted to Internet have severely reduced executive function, that means the prefrontal cortex may have been damaged.

When you write code you have to be twice as smart to debug it.

Take notes from reading book to revise.

Self-esteem does not exist.

Fight dissatisfaction:
	Make a gratitude journal. Write about what you are grateful about.

Emotional intelligence does not exist(was created by a journalist).

Sacrifice the present for the future.

Competence combats anxiousness. 

Tomatoes for gums.

Velvet hammer => polite and direct. 

Try to be more polite.

What you want and what you need  many times are different.

Rejection is better than regret.

Learn small talk.

Train 3 or 6 times a week. Try to stay composed for as long as possible, think about death everyday.

NoFap 7 days.

We want to believe popular people especially if their views are in line with ours.

If you procrastinate start doing the thing that you delay and in most cases you will get in the mood to do the work.

Secrets Of Successful Teamwork: Insights From Google:

*Equality in distribution of conversational turn-taking
	On some teams everyone spoke during each task while on others leadership shifted among teammates from 
	assignment to assignment but in each case at the end of the day everyone had spoken roughly the same 
	amount. As long as everyone got a chance to talk the team did well. But if only one group or one person 
	spoke all the time the collective intelligence declined. 
*High average social sensitivity:
	The members of the team were skilled at reading about how other felt from voice, face and other 
	nonverbal cues. A test to see how good you are at reading the mood is looking at pictures of people's 
	eyes and determine their mood. Successful teams had most members scoring above average.

It didn't matter who was on the team, teams where everybody talked listened and paid attention to each other created a psychological safe atmosphere inside the team.

Path of least resistance.
	Change environment to easily do the things you should be doing and make it hard for the things you shouldn't be doing. 
	For ex: boyfriend and girlfriend wanted to deepen the relationship so they decided at diner time they will have a meaningful conversation. Unfortunately they had Netflix so they canceled their Netflix subscription(you could simply move the TV in another room).

//
Story: a guy had a friend that was passing through the town and he was asked if they could meet Tuesday. Of course we can meet he replied. He later tells his wife the friend is coming to town and they are meeting Tuesday. She said why didn't you tell me, why didn't you asked. The husband replied aggressively "I don't have to ask you for permission" and she said I would never make a date without checking in with you. Why would that checking in make you feel that it would weaken your ability to be in charge, you make your own decisions and you don't need anybody's permission.
The question is as a man how do you embrace emotions and interdependence rather than a false or forced sense of independence and still feel a man. And how women can compete in the world of men and come home and still feel feminine. 
Take a smart opinionated partner let's say a women, how do you listen to her without feeling like she is walking all over you. How do you stand your ground but also let someone in, how to take input without feeling that you are weak or wrong, how do you let other people give you ideas, how do you ask for help without feeling that you are losing your dominance or power. The answer is negotiation(dialog).
* In a relationship learn to negotiate, establish rules beforehand. Assertiveness is a dialog, aggressiveness is a debate. To be assertive is to welcome dialog.

You constantly go after whatever's exiting at the moment. Focusing on one goal is more efficient. You can't commit to a decision. Getting started beats waiting for something to happen.

Story with programmer girl painter, some people assume wrong things about you even if that is not your intention. 
You serve the role of a mirror, the other person has issues and you reflect their insecurities, their bad part of themselves, even tough your behaviour or words are not malicious they will be seen as such.

People are quick to simplify things, white or black, with me or against, always and never.


You can share your emotions with a women but from a masculine standpoint. That means that you are not needy or share too much, the idea is that you share and say that you can deal with it, under no circumstance share and look for help from her. She wants to be taken care of she does not want to be your mother.


Young people were told that they should be happy in a relationship, but that's weak.
Relationship is a battle toward a positive end. A battle about the transformation of both of you toward becoming better persons. You need friends and a family and to act responsibly toward them and then you move in the broader community.


If you compliment somebody make sure the compliments mean something, for ex. the compliment is tied to an achievement. If a women is beautiful and you compliment her on her beauty it means little she gets that all the time, plus she might be suspect. They swim in all kind of shallow compliments so they will figure it out that you only compliment them because you want something.


All truth passes through three stages. First, it is ridiculed. Second, it is violently opposed. Third, it is accepted as being self-evident.


When you use her bathroom, look in her medicine cabinet for psych. Meds, learned that in the 80's


The modern propagandist therefore sets to work to create the circumstances which will modify that custom.

"Torches of Freedom" ad campaign. There was a taboo on smoking for women. So they hired someone to fix this. This person hired beautiful women, not to "modely" to walk on a parade and smoke, he also hired photographers to get good photos of these women and distributed them to newspaper connections to make sure it got published. He saw the women liberation movement and this ad will align with that movement.
One of the ads that came out of this: An ancient prejudice has been removed. Visually the ad is about women smoking, textually it's about tabaco, because they toasted it its not harsh on the neck and it's ok now.

"Mozart Pianos". Will you buy a piano ? Doesn't really work.
So what they did, they made an architectural expo in New York city and showcase music parlors and bring famous people, influential people, known artist etc., have expensive tapestry and so on. They created this elite picture where it was necessary to have a music room, obviously they had people in the press to cover this. Influential architects from all around the world are invited, designs with music parlors are also shown. When these influential architects leave they take the idea that to be part of the elite, that to be the cool people you need a parlor with a music room, these architects will influence other architects. Guess what, the music room should have a piano. So instead of a saying will you buy a piano, people are asking: Hey I need a piano to fill this piano shaped hole, do you have something piano shaped.

A nudge, as we will use the term, is any aspect of the choice architecture that alters people's behavior in a predictable way without forbidding any options or significantly changing their economic incentives. To count as a mere nudge, the intervention must be easy and cheap to avoid. Nudges are not mandates. Putting fruit at eye level counts as a nudge. Banning junk food does not.


The enormous expansion of communication, has entirely transformed the conditions of trade and commerce. Everything is done in haste, at fever pitch. The night is used for travel, the day for business; even "holiday trip" put a strain on the nervous system. Great political, industrial and financial crises carry this excitement  into far wider areas of the population than ever before. Interest in political life has become universal: tempers are inflamed by political, religious and social struggles, party politics, electioneering people are forced to engage in constant mental activity and robbed of the time they need for relaxation, sleep and rest.

Three parts of our brain: 
	Reptilian: ancient part used for regulating our systems 
	Limbic: part of the brain responsible for emotions
	Neocortex: part of the brain responsible for higher-order functions

	Neocortex refers to a part of the cerebral cortex concerned with sight and hearing in mammals, regarded as the most recently evolved part of the cortex while cerebral cortex refers to the outer layer of the cerebrum composed of folded grey matter and playing an important role in consciousness.

Each can influence each other: 
	Reptilian : when hungry you will make harsher moral judgments about peoples transgressions, when you play economic games you will cheat more often,less charitable, if you are hungry or in pain cortical judgement areas get affected.

	Limbic : you see a beast that is threatening this will trigger an emotional response, the reptilian is activated. When we are under stress we make stupid impulsive mistakes, the neocortex is affected.

	* Neocortex: by thinking of something pleasant and calming the limbic system gets activated which then activates the reptilian brain that calms you.

*The neuroscience of lies:
	In a study where people were given the chance to cheat this happened: in some cases the neocortex activated (people struggle should they cheat or not, what are the consequences, wondering about a lot of stuff making them feel bad and anxious, the neocortex light up like a storm) they didn't fare well, a powerful cortex did not helped them. 
	However the most successful where the people that decided to be graceful, the storm in the neocortex was not present.
	If it's a matter of willpower the frontal cortex is in a storm

Esteem : to regard with admiration.
Be weary of : "I'm special.", "Love yourself", "You get points for breathing" dogma. If you have self esteem from this, it's narcissistic behavior. This mentality taints everything, it equips you for nothing.
Self esteem prevents improvement because you can only improve if you acknowledge that you are not good at something. Have no self esteem, not low or high self esteem, just no self esteem.


If you want to convince someone it's all about you frame not I frame.


People roll a bolder up a hill and then they get unmotivated give up or slip up on the way up, the boulder resets. If you keep doing this over and over you might get depression. You have to get used to work without motivation.


If you want meaning in life search for responsibility.
Men have to figure out what they want to do or remain Peter Pan.
The alternative to valued responsibility impulsive low class pleasure.(The story with boxer and girlfriend and douchebags)
Some young people will take responsibility only for the credit of doing something worthwhile. (The story with my high school female teacher, the little boy who wanted to take responsibility).
What is done to men in today society: you are pathological and oppressive ! Fine then, why the hell am I going to play. If I don't get credit for responsibility I won't bear any but then your life is useless and meaningless, full of self contempt and nihilism. 
A man has to decide that he is going to do something(it should be good for you making you move forward, it should be good also for the family and community, there are constraints on what you should regard as a value, but among those constraints you have choice). People will carry a heavy load if they get to pick their load.
If you don't have a load you will be like the dog without a sled, tearing pieces of your leg because you are bored. People are designed to bear a load or they will eat themselves.


Alpha male is not the asshole(bully) that's superficial. In chimpanzee the highest ranking member is the alpha male. Chimpanzees form coalitions, the alpha male may be supported by older males that can no longer be alpha males. The alpha may form a coalition with the females etc. The coalition system makes everything complex.
The alpha male position is very stressful, but the lowest ranking members are also equally stressed. The alpha has two main obligations that he must do well in order to remain alpha. 
	1. Keep the peace, break fight and be impartial in his judgement, many times they protect the underdog , they provide security for the lowest member in the group (ex: if the mother of the alpha is in argument over food with other female the alpha will not take side and be impartial). That way the community benefits and he is appreciated.
	2. Be the most emphatic, the consoler in chief. They consume a lot of time and energy in providing comfort and consolation. They do this to keep the position. The community supports them, the bullies don't get support and when they lose the position they may end in bad situation.

Males when campaigning for alpha position are generous and friendly and interested in babies, they tickle them and play with them to carry favor with the females.	
The benefits and cost of alpha. The biggest benefit is mating, male can withstand a week without food if there is a female in heat and interested in her. Food is secondary for males.

The cost is that if you come to power with a coalition you must keep those that supported you happy. If the alpha is supported by and old male the alpha must allow him to mate with the females, if the alpha does not let him mate he will lose him as a partner. 
The second cost, everyone wants your position, very stressful.

The strongest most violent male can become alpha but he will not be loved, the chimpanzee will make him lose that position and after he loses the position he may end up badly. Why is the bully replaced ? It's because in order to be alpha you must be useful to the community.


It's easy to mistake masculine competence for the tyranny that drives the patriarchy. It's part of an ideological world view that sees the entire history of mankind as the oppression of women by men. Human history is a cooperative enterprise. 


We buy stuff we don't need to impress people we don't like or don't care about us.


When you try to explain something give also an example ex: like a short story to illustrate your point.
In order to think rationally you have to think from an outsider perspective. When you think about you own life you are trapped within your own perspective, emotions, feelings. So you have to ask people that you trust for advice, because from an outsider perspective they are not affected by a storm of emotions. For example you are in love but you are infatuated, you are compromised so you ask you mother about your relationship because she is an outsider, she is not affected by your emotions. 
If you give advice to someone else you are not trapped in your own emotional world but now the other person may be trapped in their own feelings and preconceptions, you put them on the spot. In order to avoid this you also have to make them have an outer perspective. 
In a study a person goes to their own doctor then scientists explain that studies show he should go for another opinion. The person in question does not go because it's their doctor how could they go for another opinion etc.. But if they have to give advice for a friend, armed with the facts of the scientists he will give advice to his friend to go for another opinion. 


The Japanese formula for happiness(Ikigai) has 4 components. 
	1. Something that you love (makes you feel good and you are focused on the task at hand)
	2. Something that the world needs. 
	We are hard wired to feel good when we are needed in a community. 
		Nowadays people have small roles in a company, you work hard but what's the point of your job, it's hard to see the positive effect our work has everyone else. It feels like our work isn't really helping anyone. It feels like if we quit our job nothing really changes.
	3. Something that pays well. 
		How are you going to be happy if you have to worry about surviving. You have to make enough to live comfortably.
	4. Something that you are good at. You put the time and effort to learn a skill. No need to be born talented. It's about being able to improve (WOW all that hard work is paying off). 

	Something that you love + something that you are good at => passion
	Something that you love + something that the world needs => mission (you need to figure out how to get better at your craft)
	Something that you are good at + Something that pays well => profession(The 9-5 that you don't love but pays the bill)
	Something that the world needs + Something that pays well => vocation (Something like a professor, doctor)


Men's happiness:
	Job satisfaction(meaningful work) => positive mindset. It's not about wealth, but a sense of making a difference, being part of something bigger and more meaningful.
	Men that have relationships and families, men that take care of their children.
	Men in their 50's seem happiest.
	Support Sports: Support team sports, being part of a group, working together for a goal, celebrating after(even if they don't win) by drinking together seems to make men feel good.
	Support military service, again being part of a group and contributing to something worthwhile.

Chimpanzees:
	Being on the bottom of social hierarchy is as stressful as being an alpha male. 

Just because you're passionate about something doesn't mean you won't suck at it. Just because you earned a degree in your chosen field doesn't mean you will find your dream job. Dream jobs are just that dreams. The imaginary existence of a dream job may keep you from jobs that could provide you with meaningful work or develop genuine passion for the job you already have. Your happiness on the job has little to do with the job itself.
On dirty jobs there was a successful septic tank cleaner, millionaire: I looked around to see where everyone else was headed, and then I went the opposite way. Then I got good at my work. Then I began to prosper. Then one day, I realized i was passionate about other people's crap. 

This was seen a lot in welders, plumbers, all kind of tradesmen that followed opportunity not passion and prospered as a result.

Millions of people with degrees and diplomas compete for a narrow set of opportunities that polite societies call good careers. Meanwhile employers struggle to fill jobs that nobody is trained to do. This is the skill gap, the cause is simple when people follow their passion or society about their job they will miss out on opportunities they didn't knew existed. 

* Passion is not enough to ensure success. Passion is to fickle to follow around. Never follow your passion but always bring it with you. 
If you want to follow your passion do it for your hobby. 

A grandchild aspired to become like his grandfather a handy man that could build a house. When the grandchild  proved he did not have the skills even after trying hard this was the grandfather's advice: You can still be a tradesman but only if you get yourself a different kind of toolbox. Don't be to persistent on things that don't work.


Like many Enlightenment thinkers of his time, Diderot had little concern for material possessions. That changed when he received a new scarlet robe from his friend as a gift.

The robe was so beautiful that Diderot treasured it above all else. But Diderot also quickly realized that the robe was out of his place amongst his other common possessions. He didn’t own anything that would match the grandeur of his new robe.

And so Diderot went about replacing his old possessions. He replaced his straw chair with a leather one. A large mirror took over the mantle of his fireplace. He filled up the vacant corner of his house with a writing desk.

Before long, Diderot found himself in debt. As he remarks in his essay titled Regrets For My Old Dressing Gown, “I was the absolute master of my old robe. I have become the slave of the new one”.

Diderot’s story shows how the acquisition of new possessions is never a singular event. Each new purchase often creates a spiral of consumption that leads you to acquire more things.

It’s a social phenomenon that explains much of our modern consumption patterns. Savvy marketers often bundle complementary products together and make us offers so compelling we cannot refuse them. One seemingly innocent purchase can lead to many bad decisions.

Having heard Diderot’s warning, we now know what happens when we go about mindlessly acquiring new possessions. But that doesn’t make the suppression of this behaviour any easier. To understand our true challenge, we need to scrutinise Diderot’s story more closely.

As he writes in his essay, Diderot cared little for material possessions before he acquired his new robe. He didn’t see them as representative of the inherent worth and value of a person:

“I can bear the sight of a peasant woman without disgust. That piece of simple cloth that covers her head, the hair that sparsely falls across her cheeks, those tattered rags that half cover her, that poor short petticoat that doesn’t cover half her legs, her naked feet covered with muck cannot wound me. It is the image of a state I respect; its the ensemble of the of the lack of grace of a necessary and unfortunate condition for which I have pity.”

But shortly after he acquired his new robe, Diderot’s views changed. He came to identify with the grandeur and beauty of his scarlet robe. Eventually, he thought the same of his other possessions as well:

“The poor man may take his ease without thinking of appearances, but the rich man is always under a strain”
How did a simple robe end up causing Diderot so much grief?

We buy things in pursuit of status. We live in a hierarchy where "Your gain is my loss".
We can never have enough if we need to have more than our neighbor. You can't win because the game never ends, you can only maintain you position at the top. This came from our evolution, we used to live in a tribe where status gets you treated differently. We are biologically primed to chase status, that does not mean we have to acquire more possessions.
The greatest reward in becoming a millionaire is not the amount of money that you earn. It is the kind of person that you have to become to become a millionaire.
It's easy to chase more without considering what we really want, therein lies the danger of mindless consumption. Most of the time what we get is a substitute or a replica of what we want, it takes reflection and honesty to truly figure that out.

What We Really Want
As it turns out, Diderot was spot on about how material possessions become intertwined with our identity.

The wealthier we get, the more things become a form of self-expression. We no longer buy shirts and shorts for the cloth that covers our skin but also to reflect our tastes and social standing.

Geoffrey Miller, evolutionary psychologist, notes in Spent: Sex, Evolution, and Behavior that one of the biggest reasons we buy things is to signal virtue:

“Humans evolved in small social groups in which image and status were all-important, not only for survival, but for attracting mates, impressing friends, and rearing children. Today we ornament ourselves with goods and services more to make an impression on other people’s minds than to enjoy owning a chunk of matter — a fact that renders ‘materialism’ a profoundly misleading term for much of consumption. Many products are signals first and material objects second. Our vast social-primate brains evolved to pursue one central social goal: to look good in the eyes of others”

Ironically, the overt pursuit of status is a low-status activity. Chasing after someone’s approval demonstrates low self-worth, which is why we instead opt to chase after possessions. This explains why the biggest companies in the world spend so much on branding.
As Charles Chu notes in his essay, luxury brands like BMW make it a point to advertise to everyone regardless of their income level. It seems like a mistake until you realize that they’re not aiming to sell you a car — not directly at least.

Their goal is to get everyone to believe that their product is valuable. The money comes in when people buy their products in a bid to signal their status.
To keep balance in the modern world be focused you should make mental images of what you expect from your day. For example there was a very effective nurse that worked in a nursery, she was asked how did she do it. She said she has a mental image of a healthy baby so when she checks the babies she compares them to this image, if it doesn't fit she takes a closer look. In her case a baby was not crying, and the spot of blood on the bandage where blood was taken was too wide. It turned out he had an infection, and was about to die in 30 min.

The problem lies in the nature of the game we’re playing.

Status is hierarchical by definition since there can only be one top dog at any time. That makes the pursuit of status an essentially zero-sum game, where your gain is my loss. We can never have enough if we need to have more than our neighbor. You can never really win because the game doesn’t end. All you can do is maintain your position at the top.

What do we do then?

Your first instinct may be to declare that you’re never going to chase status again. Yet, that’s unlikely to work out. Status was vital to our ancestors because it determined who got first choice of meat and mate: we were willing to give those who were more important to the group more privileges. While we don’t need the protection of a tribe today, status still serves largely the same purpose. We haven’t really evolved much at all.

There are other ways to play this game though. Even if we’re biologically primed to chase status, it doesn’t mean that we need to acquire more possessions. A bigger and better house may force us to spend half of our lives working. The same goes for luxury cars, accessories and jewelery, although to varying degrees.

These items are costly — in terms of both time and money — yet have little intrinsic value. Why not pursue activities that are a form of signal, but also have inherent value as well? For instance:

Work out at the gym. A big reason why people go to the gym is so they can tell others about it. But working out also provides the inherently valuable benefit of being healthy.
Speaking or debating publicly. Speaking in front of an audience signals some form of expertise, but the prerequisite is that you must be informed. Knowledge is the main benefit.
Teaching others. It’s another demonstration of expertise, but it’s the Protégé Effect at work as well: you’re helping others learn a skill while refining your own understanding.


You should make a series of mental images of what you expect in a day, and if something doesn't fit you are aware of unordinary events. For example you have work in the house but at some point you get a message or an email, you don't check your message you finish your work because the message was unscheduled. 
Another example, at work you boss suddenly asks your opinion in a meeting but this is an unexpected event, you are put on the spot, you realize that this is outside of your expectation so you say that you have to give it some thought. If you answer on the spot you might regret, because the answer was not properly constructed.

* Facts don't win fights. If people have their own convictions, believes, opinions, their brain no longer tries to figure out what you are saying, you are shut off. In that time some people build their retort, that's why they have that glazed look, because they stoped listening and now are constructing the comeback based on their own believes.

Smart people may use their intelligence to twist fact in favor of their believes. Scientists tried to convince people that vaccination is ok for their kids. On one group they showed facts that autism from vaccines is not true but it did not work. On the other group they showed measles and the effects on kids, people wanted to vaccinate kids now because they forgot the reason for vaccination.

Dopamine neurotransmitter that makes you seek rewards.
Without it you lose all motivation to do anything. Scientists turned off dopamine receptors and rats stopped feeding and died. They last all motivation to feed even when hungry with food just next to them.
Homeostasis: The brain wants to keep things at a natural level.
Drugs raise dopamine levels, brain reacts by decreasing the number of dopamine receptors
Effects of low dopamine receptors:
	- Fatigue , insomnia
	- Lack of motivation
	- Mood swings
	- Memory loss
	- Social anxiety, anxiety in general
	- Sugar craving
	- Stress, inability to connect with others
	- Inability to focus
	- Low dopamine equals DEPRESSION
Sex is the most dopamine stimulating activity that you can naturally partake in.
Sex raises dopamine levels to 200% similar to morphine, lower than cocaine 300%.
However cocaine maintains that level for a few minutes, pornography for as much as you like because of the Coolidge effect: 
	- when scientist put a female with a male mice he will have lots of sex but over time he will be less and less interested, over time he reached a point when it took a long time to orgasm until he was no longer interested indicating dopamine levels decreased
	- when a new female was put in the cage his dopamine levels spiked back up and he had sex with the new female, if scientists kept introducing new females he would have sex until he could no longer move
	- Dopamine levels can be maintained for a long time at a high level

*That means when you watch pornography you can maintain high levels of dopamine by watching different videos. That means you can watch porn for hours and have high levels of dopamine, when that happens your dopamine receptors decrease. You can screw you dopamine reward circuits over time.

Edging: masturbating until you are close to orgasm and then stopping or just watch porn and masturbate until you are close just keeps dopamine levels high for long periods of time. After orgasm prolactin is released to stop craving, with no release you maintain dopamine at high levels, not good.

Say a few nice things about your partner everyday.

We have a brain region linked to positive illusions ex: we focus on the nice things of a person so we don't see the bad things.

Sometimes when we argue we say always and never, we have this bias where we believe that our partner is doing things that we don't like on purpose. His or her actions are inexcusable but ours are when we do it, our reasons are valid theirs are not etc.. We build a case against them where we pick the things that we don't like and store them for later use but ignore other things that don't point in the direction we want. Sometimes our partner may do something that we don't like once and we remember and at a later date we say you alway do this remember when you did that etc.. Just because we feel angry or annoyed we have to remember that what we feel, what we are experiencing may not be the truth of the matter. Just because we feel a certain way does not mean that our experience is the reality. 

The law of averages. As a salesman of telecommunication services one guy observed he had three types of customers:
1. The hard nosed customer:
	- The most common customer
	- Content with current provider
	- Does not want to hear your pitch
	- Loves to chase away salesman
	- Difficulty : hard to land a deal even for experienced salesman

2. The indifferent consumer
	- Minor issues with provider
	- Not looking to buy
	- Willing to listen
	- About 10% of customers
	- Difficulty medium

3. The easy consumer
	- Issues with current provider
	- Looking to switch
	- Easiest sale of your life
	- Very hard to find
	- Difficulty elementary

The law of averages in his case stated that from 100 people he will get one willing customer, about 10% indifferent consumer that most likely will reject you, the rest are just hard rejections. So he wanted to prove the law is not true. He went into a fifteen story complex and he was rejected by almost all consumers. About 10% were indifferent, almost all were hard rejections but the last three apartments were all willing consumers to switch over.
-This applies to your life, dating, job, recognition. The majority of people will reject you.
The odds are never in your favor but if you try multiple times eventually you will succeed. What percentage is you success rate is unknown, the more you try the more you will get rejected but eventually you will succeed.

In order to be able to think you have to risk being offensive.

How to stay calm under pressure(choking):
***Focus
Focus on the task at hand, limit distractions so you don't have relevant and irrelevant thoughts competing for the same attention.
The mind should not be preoccupied with worries, doubts or fears.
Pressure can make you overanalyse the task at hand.
When a skill becomes automatic thinking about it interferes with the ability to do it.

To not fail under pressure you must train under pressure and focus on the end goal(e.g.,golfer that thinks about the mechanics of his swing will perform worse than the one who simply focuses on putting the ball in the hole and letting the body do all the work that's been trained to do without overanalyzing (trying to think of every aspect of the move)). 

Pre performance routine reduces anxiety eg., a few deep breaths, repeating some word with meaning etc., repeating a sequence of movements.
External focus on a goal works better than an internal one where someone is attuned into the mechanics of what they are doing eg., golfers that focus on the flight of the ball perform better than those that focus on the motion of their arms.

Why we fear women ? Because we fear rejection. If you have one woman that you want and you are rejected your fears are realized, you failed evolution no more offspring etc.. If you have option A,B,C and you get rejected by A you will feel bad, but it's not the end of the world.

kulak (rich peasant)
In Ukraine communism came, there were people that worked and improved their situation and they were successful in agriculture. The situation of these people compared with most was better. So communism came and told everybody that these people stole from the poor, they were the reason they were poor, and so a culture of rape and murder was formed. When the successful farmers were killed or sent to gulags and equity was achieved everybody could starve equally. 

*There are always the hyper productive people but they are a minority everywhere. Some people were not doing well in life some because of misfortune but many because they didn't struggle to improve they're situation, they didn't do anything productive in their life. Now communist intellectuals told them they suffer because of the rich and slightly richer farmers, they stole all of that from you. Equity led to the rape of they're daughters in the name of good.

The principle was simple. Richer, more successful peasants had to be ‘liquidated’, by starvation, murder or exile. The rest would be herded into vast state-run farms where they would toil ceaselessly for the greater Soviet good, instead of for private profit.

What should rule in a dominance hierarchy: speech, vision and willingness to confront the terrible unknown.

There is a physiological aspect to IQ, humans with greater IQ have slightly bigger and better nervous system. They have a slightly bigger brain compared with their body size,slightly faster reaction etc.

What you don't have is more compelling than what you don't have.

When you take out God, everything is permitted which does not lead to a very nice place.

Our society was built with religion in it. When you take God or gods out of it things are no longer the same. Unless people are willing to adhere to some transcendent value, they have no protection against pathological ideology and no protection against the murderous impulses that come with it.

Think about all the things that you do that you shouldn't do beyond the shadow of a doubt(bad habits, resentment, hate, aggression, poor aim). If those things get the upper hand and they take you to the worst possible place in the next three years, what exactly is that like. So you sketch all that out and say: Hey I don't wanna go there. So the next time the temptation comes, you think "How about no" because you imagine the bad place. Ex: let's say that if you don't get your eating under control you will have diabetes and you will have your legs chopped off. Hell no !.

You have to weigh the benefits and costs of doing something, but you also have to weigh the benefits and costs of not doing that thing. Sometimes the costs of not making a decision are higher than not doing anything, even if that decision is risky. 


Anxiety : intense , excessive and persistent worry and fear about everyday situations.

When anxiety tells you things ask it questions, for ex: 
	- You are going to fail !
	- What if I don't !

	By having both extremes in reality the things that happen are generally in the middle.


Treat yourself as if you matter, if you don't, you become vengeful and cruel. You take it on people around you and you don't become a positive force. You suffer, everybody around you suffers. If you treat others like they don't matter you lie, cheat, steal enter in impulsive relationships, they can't trust you, they don't like you. That doesn't go anywhere. You end up alone or incarcerated. You watch people that thrive and they act the proposition that everyone matters and then you have a functioning society.

There is a lack of encouragement in society.

In order to have positive meaning in your life you need to identify a goal and work to achieve that goal, the reward system is dopamine centric. Working to achieve a goal that you value will engage a lot of systems in your brain for the best. Positive emotion is produced by reward, there are two kinds 
	consummatory reward: related with satiation for ex. when you are hungry and you eat etc., chasing
		immediate rewards a lot makes you empty because after you satisfy hunger for example then that frame disappears and you are stuck with what to do next and it better not be another immediate pleasure, don't go for hedonism because what makes you happy in the next minute does not make you happy in the next hour.

	incentive reward: is what constantly keeps you moving forward because it's dopamine centric it's analgesic, if you work in something engaging like an athlete trying to win a match they can get injured and still continue. You are happy if you make progress to a really important goal. This type of reward is connected with the exploratory circuit witch is really old. There are pleasure ,analgesic and fear reducing components associated with the behaviour of pursuing and making progress toward a worthy goal.

A social experiment involving mice which should have the same impact on humanity as the apple falling on Newton's head. Unfortunately, this has not happened due to... unknown factors or probably due to politics.

Eight mice given perfect living conditions with everything they needed. The population rose, fell and became extinct within 4 years. It was repeated several times using mice and rats and the results were the same:

Due to the lack of challenges, extinction was inevitable.
This was John Calhoun's deepest concern - I shall largely speak of mice, but my thoughts are on man,....

In July 1968 four pairs of mice were introduced into the Utopian universe. The universe was a 9-foot (2.7 m) square metal pen with 54-inch-high (1.4 m) sides. Each side had four groups of four vertical, wire mesh "tunnels". The "tunnels" gave access to nesting boxes, food hoppers, and water dispensers. There was no shortage of food or water or nesting material. There were no predators. The only adversity was the limit on space.

Initially the population grew rapidly, doubling every 55 days. The population reached 620 by day 315, after which the population growth dropped markedly. The last surviving birth was on day 600. This period between day 315 and day 600 saw a breakdown in social structure and in normal social behavior. Among the aberrations in behavior were the following:

expulsion of young before weaning was complete,
wounding of young,
inability of dominant males to maintain the defense of their territory and females,
aggressive behavior of females,
passivity of non-dominant males with increased attacks on each other which were not defended against.
After day 600, the social breakdown continued and the population declined toward extinction. During this period females ceased to reproduce. Their male counterparts withdrew completely, never engaging in courtship or fighting. They ate, drank, slept, and groomed themselves – all solitary pursuits. Sleek, healthy coats and an absence of scars characterized these males. They were named "the beautiful ones". 

To see how Dr Calhoun's mouse universe grew, we use the familiar population graph again. Within the first one hundred days, the mice went through the period Dr Calhoun called, "strive". This was the period of adjustment. Territories were established and nests were made. The next period lasted about two hundred and fifty days. The population of the mice doubled every sixty days. This was called the "exploit" period. The use of resources become unequal. Although each living unit was identical in structure and opportunities, more food and water was consumed in some areas. As the population increased, most mice associated eating and drinking with the presence of others. And crowding developed in certain units. The third period, consisting of three hundred days, found the population of mice leveling off. This was called the "equilibrium" period. Dr Calhoun noticed that the newer generations of young were inhibited, since most space was already socially defined.

At this time, some unusual behaviour become noticeable. Violence become prevalent. Excess males strived for acceptance, were rejected and withdrew. Huddling together, they would exhibit brief flurries of violence amongst themselves. The effects of violence became increasingly visible. Certain individuals became targets of repeated attacks. These individuals would have badly chewed and scarred tails. Other young mice growing into adulthood exhibited an even different type of behaviour. Dr Calhoun called these individuals "the beautiful ones". Their time was devoted solely to grooming, eating and sleeping. They never involved themselves with others, engaged in sex, nor would they fight. All appeared as a beautiful exhibit of the species with keen, alert eyes and a healthy well-kept body. These mice, however, could not cope with unusual stimuli. Though they looked inquisitive they were, in fact, very stupid.

Dr Calhoun called the last period the "die" phase, leading the population into extinction. Although the mouse utopia could house 3000, the population began to decline at 2200. In the shift from the equilibrium to the die phase, each animal became less aware of associates, despite all animals being pushed closer together. Dr Calhoun concluded that the mice could not effectively deal with the repeated contact of so many individual. The evidence of violence increased to the point where most individuals had had their tails bitten to some degree. Eventually, the whole mouse population perished

Phases of the rat experiment:

Phase A - The phase of social adjustment (strive period) 

	Day 1 - introduction of 4 males and 4 females
	Day 104 - first litters are born

	(1) Considerable social turmoil among the 8 mice until they became adjusted to each other and to their expanded surroundings.
	(2) Territories were established and nests were made.

Phase B - The phase of most rapid growth (exploit period)
	Day 105 - rapid population growth
	Day 314

	(1) Population doubling time is about 55 days
	(1) Social organization established – frequency of litters proportional to social dominance
	(1) The births tended to be concentrated in some sets of nest boxes (dominant males), while others (non-dominant males - withdrawn males = WM) had few or none.
	(2) Although each living unit was identical in structure and opportunities, more food and water was consumed in certain areas. As the population increased, most mice associated eating and drinking with the presence of others. And crowding developed in certain units.
	(1) At the end of this phase there were 3 times as many socially immature mice as there were socially established older ones.

Phase C - The stagnation phase (equilibrium period)
	Day 315 - slow population growth
	Day 559

	(1) Population doubling time is about 145 days
	(1) The male ability to defend territory declines
	(1) The nursing females become aggressive, essentially taking over the role of the territorial males. This aggression generalized to their own young who were attacked, wounded, and forced to leave home several days before normal weaning.
	(2) At this time, some unusual behaviour became noticeable. Violence became prevalent. Excess males strived for acceptance, were rejected and withdrew. Social disorder became visible – a WM would attack a passive WM, who in turn would attack another WM. Certain individuals became targets of repeated attacks. These individuals would have badly chewed and scarred tails.
	(4) Socially withdrawn male 29 makes a pan-sexual approach to male 16 who he recently saw attacked. Note how one assumes the female role. Males exhibit sexual behaviour towards other males; you have rat homosexuality. They begin mounting the young.
	(1) Incidence of conception decline and resorption of fetuses increases and dissolution of maternal behaviour is observed. This lead to non-reproducing females.
	(1) By midway in phase C, essentially all young were prematurely rejected by their mothers. They started independent life without having developed adequate affective bonds.
	(1) Considering that there were 256 nest retreat sites in the 16 cells, one would not expect shelter to be a limiting factor until the population exceeded 3840. Due to the tendency of many animals to choose to crowd together in numbers in excess of 15 per nest site, at the peak population size of 2200 mice, 20% of all nest sites were usually unoccupied. Thus, there were always opportunities for females to select an unoccupied space for rearing young if they so chose.
	(1) Social disorder – a WM would attack a passive WM, who in turn would attack another


Phase D - The death phase (death period) 
	Day 560 - negative population growth
	Day 1588 - end of study

	(1) Population increase abruptly ceased on day 560 after colonization.
	(1) Incidence of pregnancies decline very rapidly with no young surviving.
	(1) The last conception took place about day 920
	(1) Male counterparts to non-reproducing females were named the "beautiful ones". They never engaged in sexual approaches toward females, and they never engaged in fighting. Their behavioral repertoire became largely confined to eating, drinking, sleeping and grooming.
	(1) The capacity for reproduction terminated.
	(3) The last thousand animals born never learned to develop the social behaviors, they never learned to be aggressive, which is necessary in defense of home sites; not engaging in any stressful activity, and only paying attention to themselves, they groomed themselves well so they looked like very fine specimens.
	(2) Other young mice growing into adulthood exhibited an even different type of behaviour. Dr Calhoun called these individuals "the beautiful ones". Their time was devoted solely to grooming, eating and sleeping. They never involved themselves with others, engaged in sex, nor would they fight. All appeared as a beautiful exhibit of the species with keen, alert eyes and a healthy well-kept body. These mice, however, could not cope with unusual stimuli. Though they looked inquisitive they were, in fact, very stupid.

All available space was not taken
WM (Withdrawn Males) had no social roles so they withdrew
The larger the population, the less care a mother gives to her nest and young.

John Calhoun conclusions:
	The demise of a population contradicts prior knowledge which indicates that when a population declines to a few remnant groups, some individuals will reinitiate its growth.

	Dr. Halsey Marsden (1972) placed some mice from the mid-third of phase D into new universes at very low densities. all exhibited nearly total loss of capacity for developing a structured society or for engaging in the full repertoire of reproductive behaviors.

	For an animal so simple as a mouse, the most complex behaviours involve the interrelated set of courtship, maternal care, territorial defence and hierarchical intragroup and intergroup social organisation. When behaviours related to these functions fail to mature, there is no development of social organisation and no reproduction. As in the case of my study reported above, all members or the population will age and eventually die. The species will die out. For an animal so complex as man, there is no logical reason why a comparable sequence of events should not also lead to species extinction. If opportunities for role fulfillment fall far short of the demand by those capable of filling roles, and having expectations to do so, only violence and disruption of social organisation can follow. Individuals born under these circumstances will be so out of touch with reality as to be incapable even of alienation. Their most complex behaviours will become fragmented. Acquisition, creation and utilisation of ideas appropriate for life in a post-industrial cultural-conceptual-technological society will have been blocked. Just as biological generativity in the mouse involves this species' most complex behaviours, so does ideational generativity for man. Loss of these respective complex behaviours means death of the species.

The principal factor is the lack of social education in the young
Due to the abundance of food and water and lack of predators, there was no need to perform any actions to acquire resources and/or avoid danger. So the young have no opportunity to see such actions, learn (bad pupils often lose their lives) and, later, use them effectively.
Utopia (when one has everything, at any moment, for no expenditure) declines responsibility, effectiveness and awareness of social dependence, and finally, as Dr Calhoun's study showed, leads to self-extinction.
Contrarily, difficult conditions instigate better coping mechanisms for the population, leading to its growth, strengthening and reinforcement.

Working to achieve a goal will engage all kinds of parts of your brain, it will give you more rewards and you will feel good for a longer period of time. If you only aim for immediate pleasure you get a dopamine release that gives you a kick for a short amount of time, the question is what happens next. Do you continue to pursue activities that give you pleasure for a short amount of time but leave you empty afterwards ?

Satisfice: decide on and pursue a course of action that will satisfy the minimum requirements necessary to achieve a particular goal.

You want to get your fear behind you to push you forward, instead of in-front of you where it's stopping you. In life you will suffer anyway but if you waste your life and suffer that's a bad deal. You can suffer and do something meaningful at least it's a way forward even if you can't accomplish your goal.

It's good to contemplate your mortality because you're screwed no matter what you do. You have path A that has catastrophe, path B that has catastrophe, you don't have a path without catastrophe but you get to chose one. So you have to make a decision but the path is terrifying but the cost of not doing it is often higher.

If you have enough money to pay the bill collectors more money will not make you more happy.

People can become braver and overcome their fear, it's hard to make people fear less. Often what people fear is an image blown out of proportion of one or more possible things that might harm them. Taking the image and separating the fears, challenging them one by one gradually makes you aware that your imagination got the better of you. It's not that you fear less, it's the fact that the image is different than reality.

In this clip, Jordan Peterson talks about agoraphobia, which is the fear of open and crowded spaces and how women in their 40's are the most likely to develop it. It comes from being overprotected during their entire lives and always having some sort of authority figure around. When they age and get older, all of the sudden they become sensitive to their vulnerabilities.

If someone is afraid of everything and they hide in their home, you expose them gradually and programmatically to the things they fear, and show them that they are stronger than they think.

Women that live protected don't stand up for themselves because they can't challenge the protector to forsake protection. If you play the game, I hide behind you then I can't challenge you. You see this in guys too, they deathly afraid of their fathers judgement when they are in their 30's and 40's. Why ? Because they still want to believe their fathers know better then they do, but what if they don't, what if nobody knows better then you, until you realize that you are not an adult. Because nobody knows what you should do better than you. 

Ability is sought by w. 
Falling into the abyss and climbing out and hopefully learning things in the process is human development.
If you let people do things for you that you can do yourself, they will take something from you and you might end up bitter.
Rejection rate might be as high as 98% in some cases, prepare yourself.
With no challenge to overcome you cannot improve, no improvement no growth as a human(Superman used to be able to do almost everything but that was boring. He became god and god always won. To make a story they had to introduce cryptonite .)

To motivate even if it's boring you can trick your brain by making decisions. For example you have to send and email but it's boring, so you can say I'm going to start from the middle of the page. You have to go to lunch but you make a decision, it has to be Indian. In the army after you eat you have to clean but nobody tells you how to do it, you have to make decisions and figure out how stuff works.  

A goal is not always meant to be reached, it often serves simply as something to aim at.

Exercise and good nutrition keeps brain degeneration away.

Pleasure from work intrinsic and extrinsic:
extrinsic: pleasure when we get paid at the end of the month but nod during work
intrinsic: pleasure when doing the work

Just friends: The good parts come from being just friends yet from movies, books, other persons we learn to feel rejected and other bad things. A lot of times love or what we call love brings out a lot of bad things from the partners.

Chunking: take a large task and break it in smaller tasks.
63 hours too much: Nope
just have to make it for 1 hour : OK . Over and over again

Higher order thinking will make you more motivated. When you think on the long, medium term why you do certain actions today.
Lower order thinking: what to eat today, have to go to gym etc.

The truth is not what you want it to be; it is what it is, and you must bend to its power or live a lie.

Everybody is a Genius. But If You Judge a Fish by Its Ability to Climb a Tree, It Will Live Its Whole Life Believing that It is Stupid.

People like to be asked questions, when you talk to them and you don't understand ask questions. That means you are paying attention, and people like attention because hardly anybody pays attention to them.

The fool is the precursor to the savior. Because you are a fool when you start something new. If you are not willing to bee a fool, then you won't start anything new and if you don't start anything new then you won't develop. The willingness to be a fool is the precursor to transformation, that is the same as humility.

If you stop you will regress because the world will move away from you. You have to move forward constantly even if you make mistakes.

Ego is the anesthesia that deadens the pain of stupidity. Pride is the burden of a foolish person.

Book Ordinary men is about a group of middle class regular policemen that descend into tyranny. They have orders to do horrible things but they are given the option to return home if they don't want to. The men belong to a group and in general people will do those horrible things, even if they suffer from them for various reasons(for example if your group has to do hard things that they don't like and you exclude yourself from that you might no longer belong to the group, if your comrades have hard things to do you want to help them, if you don't it's a matter of cowardice). They had a horrible task and after that another task more horrible was given to them and so on and so forth.

You need a sense of meaning to fortify you against the trouble of life, the suffering of life, most often you will have that meaning in adopting responsibility. That's not the same as pursuing happiness or being impulsive. You find the meaning by taking care of yourself, family and community. If you fail to do those things there is a price to be paid. If you want to make things better you start by taking care of things that are within your control and also doing it in a way less likely to cause harm to other people.


You can't negotiate when you can't say no. You can't say no when you don't have alternatives. 
You don't have to make your children feel good, you have to encourage them and offer discipline, rules for stability. You have to make them better person not make them feel better.


I'm English and decided at 40, after a break up, that I'd never live with a woman again...too much like hard work.  I brought my own little place did it up and after a while decided to move on.  
The female estate agent that came around to value my property said she was so glad when she found out it was a property owned by me, a single male and not a single female.  I asked why.  She went on to tell me that most females that live alone aren't house proud and their houses are usually in a state of disrepair; basically they make no effort.  If it's a single bloke they are usually house proud or at least made an effort, and the place has been fixed up.  So selling places owned by single men is a far easier prospect.  This from a woman lol.
I'm now 50, been single for 10 yrs and realize living alone is by far the better option.  Woman can be lovely but they can also be very difficult, unreasonable, irrational and make life way harder than it need be.  They bring little, other than sex and the occasional cuddle, to the table.
By all means date, have a serious relationship but think long and hard about living with a woman or getting married.
If you can get beyond the thought of sex, or lack of consistent sex, living alone really is the way to go:-)


Whether it be studying or training, just putting in effort wasn’t enough. To put it bluntly, one had to put in effort well.


How to stay motivated.
	Two groups of children they were given puzzles to solve. After they solved the puzzles they were congratulated.The first group was told that they did well because they are smart, the second group was told that they did well because they are hard workers. They were given three types of puzzles easy, medium and hard and they were told to solve puzzles again. The first group mostly solved easy ones and lost motivation, the second group tackled more puzzles including hard ones because they were told they are hard workers, they had an increase in motivation and when asked if they enjoyed the experience they said yes unlike the first group. So what happened.

	There is the concept of locus of control, the degree to which you believe you have control over your life. The first group of children that were led to believe they did well because they are smart and gifted they were led to believe in what it's known an external locus of control(factors outside of what they control allowed them to be good at puzzles, you can't control if you are born smart or not). The second group started to believe in an internal locus of control, they were lead to believe that they did good because of factors they control(hard work, extra effort). Because of how much work you put into something is something that you have complete control over.

	To stay motivated you need an internal locus of control, you must feel you have some control over your life and you are responsible for the things happen to you.

	Sales story, selling from door to door. The ones that didn't make it were the ones that blamed their bad sales day on external factors like the weather, nobody home, etc., not the fact that they visited less homes. When you feel like nothing that you do matters you stop working, stop trying.
	
	To apply this to your life, you must solve some of your problems then stop and realize it was your effort that solved the problems.



Purpose driven life.

Finding Your True Passion Is A Cliché:
Psychology Professor Jordan Peterson on observing yourself when you are meaningfully engaged in something. But be attentive and reasonable, don't deceive yourself and don't do things that are harmful to others(ex: you get engaged in harming small animals, that's not socially acceptable you might switch to humans). If your are going to personalize your life act in a way that makes you a reliable guide, you have to make truth the highest value, else you won't be able to trust yourself to be the best guide. The catholics struggled with this for a long time: humans are so steeped in sin that they can't trust themselves, so they need the church and the priest as an intermediary.

A part of the truth can be used to wallop someone in the face, and then the person hitting can reason it's the truth and you are bad because you can't take it.

If you want to do something but it's too big and you just don't wanna do it, break it in smaller pieces just do small stuff every day and they will add up. Negotiate with yourself how much you want to do and what you want to do. Just take small steps.

You can't be a rabbit. Part of interaction with people is to negotiate. If you negotiate you have to say no, no causes conflict, if you are agreeable it's hard to say no, you can't tolerate conflict, you can't negotiate on your own behalf, you keep losing and get resentful. You have to develop your inner monster and control yourself, that makes you a better person.

Conscientiousness is the personality trait of being careful, or vigilant. Conscientiousness implies a desire to do a task well, and to take obligations to others seriously. Conscientious people tend to be efficient and organized as opposed to easy-going and disorderly.

There are smart people low on conscientiousness that will take all the credit for the work of other people, they will be confident and people will confuse it with competence. If you are agreeable and can't tolerate conflict they will take advantage of you and you will become resentful among other negative things.

A four-step method for giving foolproof feedback incomplete complete later......
Mood memory, if people walk out of the conversation not feeling good they want to throw away all the information they received. People remember more how you make them feel than anything that you said. Feedback is not about berating or punishing someone we focus on the past to prepare for the future

There is a need for Hard working, reliable people that communicate.
Communication is key. You don't want people to wait for responses or wonder if you will follow through.

declutter the mind: take a walk, meditate or write your thoughts

Assertiveness, sometimes you have to put forward your own wishes an desires in a manner that causes conflict. 	  In order to withstand that conflict you have to be able to draw on your source of aggression. People are afraid to engage in conflict, because conflict can be real trouble and anger inhibits fear. If you don't have a well defined capacity for anger you can't control your fear, then you can't stand up for yourself, then people will walk all over you and you become resentful, resentfulness will lead to feeling like a victim which will lead to anger because you think it's unfair, this will make you aggressive in a sneaky underground  unconscious kind of way. This behaviour will make you less productive than a frank exchange of viewpoints and conscious negotiation. 
    One of the things JP does in therapy for building assertiveness is making patients pay attention at their 
resentment. Resentment is a useful emotion but can be very destructive because it gives rise to victimhood and second the underground growth of ideas of revenge and a state of uncooperativeness. Because who wants to cooperate when they feel take advantage off.
	The social world wants you to be peaceful, predictable and easy to get along with. But that doesn't mean 
these are the only virtues(virtues taken to extreme become vices)

**** Check list:
1 A goal
2 Attitude our attitude toward the world. We have the ability to change our environment.
3 Think.  The only thing about a man that is a man is it’s his mind everything else you can find in a pig or horse. Spend some time in front of a paper and think of new ideas about achieving your goal.
4 Reap what you saw. There are rewards in life equal to our contribution. Story preacher and the nice farm(Preacher: God has blessed you with a magnificent farm. Farmer: You should have seen this place when he had it all to himself.)
5 Truth. Build on truth or else you build on sand.
6 How much did you invest in yourself to make you smarter than the year before.
7 Strangest Secret: We become what we think most of the time. By thinking you will become that.
8 Imagination is everything. We can become what we imagine.

Never lose individuality by submerging in a suffocating sea of indirection and purposelessness.

Drop by drop the bucket gets filled. Never lose focus of your goal.

When nothing else works, work. The most fulfilling is when you work hard to accomplish something, you are concentrated and dedicated to get the job done and when you do you will feel amazing. When you reminiscence it's when you work hard to achieve something that made you the happiest not indulging in transitory pleasure.

When you want to give up thing about what made you start.

Breathe with your belly(diaphragm). Let breath drip into your belly.

Gain muscle, drive electricity through them, control motion.

Unexpressed emotion is stored in muscles.

Proust once put it: “To goodness and wisdom we only make promises; we obey pain.”

Example is not the main thing in influencing others. It is the only thing.

Do it right or don't bother.

Success is the progressive realization of an ideal. Any person that knows what's it doing and where is going it's a success. -Earl Nightingale

To tell a good story it's not about going from A to B. When you talk about your achievements, about what you created etc it's the difficulties you encountered on the road to get there make the story interesting. 

Ex: The story of how the smallest glass was created by accident. Normal non tech people related to that and because of that it got picked up by various news media, then he received offers to commercialize his discovery because his story reached so many people.
The story gives you the person. Tell your employer the story so he can see the person. The person is what he wants.

Dream big. Start small. Then connect the dots . . .

Be on time with mini deadlines, short meetings to coordinate with others, use calendar organizer.

Thus, to change a habit (quitting smoking, for example), we don’t just quit once; we have to quit again and again, each and every time temptation arises. When no one is praising and no one is cheering us on.

Character is revealed through choices under pressure. The choices we make and actions we take after the honeymoon is over — when motivation fades and doubts arise — is a true test of character. If our behaviors are aligned with our highest aims, despite resistance or boredom or fear, then let us to persist just another hour, just another day, along the peaceful warrior's way.

In other words, the way itself creates the warrior. And as our coursework continues,
lessons repeat themselves until we learn them. And if we don’t learn the easy lessons,
they get harder. As the saying goes, “Experience is the best teacher, but her fees can be high.”

«Faith in what?» he asked himself, adrift in limbo.
«Faith in faith,» he answered himself. «It isn't necessary to have something to believe in. It's only necessary to believe that somewhere there's something worthy of belief.»

// pouring all of your soul in watever you do is the magic

// People who complain weaken their ki , those who understand the power of languace
speak less.
// Easy doesn't enter grown mans life.

I once wrote, “Every time you
say blah blah blah, a creative writing teacher dies,” and I meant it.
Each time you open your mouth, you have an opportunity to build
something. That’s the perspective you want during the uncomfortable
dead silence, not the victim-based emotion of excuse.
I’m in a hurry, but being in a hurry isn’t an excuse for not taking a
small amount of time to say something real.

The absence of some thread of an idea about how you’re going to do the impossible means you might be screwed.
The lack of a glimpse of a plan beyond the charisma translates to
a lack of hope.

Some ma matrs bet their existence on what they do.

"Plans are useful, bur don't get atached to them life has too many
many surprises. Preparation, on the other hand, has value. even if
the future you planned never comes."

My first excursion into the word “trickle” was an idea called Trickle
Theory. The argument was simple: you can do more than you think
with small, consistent investments of your time.

“Let me tell you something you already know. The world ain't all sunshine and rainbows. It's a very mean and nasty place, and I don't care how tough you are, it will beat you to your knees and keep you there permanently if you let it. You, me, or nobody is gonna hit as hard as life. But it ain't about how hard you hit. It's about how hard you can get hit and keep moving forward; how much you can take and keep moving forward. That's how winning is done! Now, if you know what you're worth, then go out and get what you're worth. But you gotta be willing to take the hits, and not pointing fingers saying you ain't where you wanna be because of him, or her, or anybody. Cowards do that and that ain't you. You're better than that! I'm always gonna love you, no matter what. No matter what happens. You're my son and you're my blood. You're the best thing in my life. But until you start believing in yourself, you ain't gonna have a life.” 

// Dan Millman WotPW
"If you have enough money to satisfy your desires, Dan, you are rich. But there are two ways 
to be rich: You can earn, inherit, borrow, beg, or steal enough money to meet expensive desires;
 or, you can cultivate a simple lifestyle of few desires; that way you always have more than enough money.
"Only the warrior has the insight and discipline to make use of that second way.
Full attention to every moment is my desire and my pleasure. Attention costs no money; your only investment is training.
That's another advantage of being a warrior,
“The secret of happiness you see is not found in seeking more but in developing the capacity to enjoy less”

// Caine
What separates the pro from the amateur is that the pro fights first and gets embarrassed later. Get embarrassed first and there is no later.

// Uchuu Kyoudai 
Just focus on the task at hand.( focus, useless thoughts just get in the way. )
If you're worrying, it's okay if you don't think about it with your head. If it's about you , your heart knows best.
Decide using "witch is more fun" ?

// tips productive people
1. Manage Your Mood
2. Don’t Check Email in The Morning
3. Before You Try To Do It Faster, Ask Whether It Should Be Done At All
4. Focus Is Nothing More Than Eliminating Distractions
5. Have A Personal System
6. Define Your Goals The Night Before

// Zen
-Zen often seems paradoxical - it requires an intense discipline which, when practised properly, results in total 
spontaneity and ultimate freedom. This natural spontaneity should not be confused with impulsiveness.
- Most Zen training is Attention training

// All I can suggest is patience, persistence, and being yourself. Nothing else will work in the long run. Just like an assignment.

// Philip K. Dick
Reality is that which, when you stop believing in it, doesn’t go away.

Nervous system doesn't understand negatives
"I will sleep on my back tonight ."

// Dan Millman ----------------

“Where are you? Here
What time is it? Now
What are you? This moment.” 

“The journey is what brings us happiness not the destination.” 

“There are no ordinary moments.” 

“There is no need to search; achievement leads to nowhere. It makes no difference at all, so 
just be happy now! Love is the only reality of the world, because it is all One, you see. And 
the only laws are paradox, humor and change. There is no problem, never was, and never will be
. Release your struggle, let go of your mind, throw away your concerns, and relax into the 
world. No need to resist life, just do your best. Open your eyes and see that you are far 
more than you imagine. You are the world, you are the universe; you are yourself and everyone
 else, too! It's all the marvelous Play of God. Wake up, regain your humor. Don't worry, just
  be happy. You are already free!” 

You’ve probably heard that saying that everyone is an optimist in the first four hours of a
diet. So when we make a positive change, take on a new discipline, or start a new
exercise routine or dietary regimen, we begin with enthusiasm and may even experience
some fast results.
But inevitably, over time, we hit plateaus and find that with the peaks come valleys. It’s
no longer new; it becomes routine (after three days or weeks or months or years); at some
point, our initial passion or motivation wears thin.
It’s no longer fun telling friends about our new and exciting [fill in the blank]. All that's
left is us and our daily decision to persist or not.
At this point in my training with Socrates, when the newness wore off, I had to confront
the rising resistance and waning excitement. In this phase the old, familiar, and generally
easier lifestyle calls us back to the way things were. Fits of nostalgia fill our fantasy life as
doubts arise. After all, what was so bad about the way it was before?
Applying our will against the inertia of old habits is like applying friction to roll a boulder
uphill; it creates psychic heat that has a purifying, empowering effect. But it burns just
the same as we hear the sweet siren’s song, the urge to go back to the familiar, to be like
everyone else, be welcomed back into the fold, to take the pressure off.
Thus, to change a habit (quitting smoking, for example), we don’t just quit once; we have
to quit again and again, each and every time temptation arises. When no one is praising
and no one is cheering us on. Except ourselves. At times like this, it's good to recall words
attributed to Abraham Lincoln: "I am not bound to win, but I am bound to be true; I am
not bound to succeed, but I am bound to live up to what light I have."

Character is revealed through choices under pressure. The choices we make and actions
we take after the honeymoon is over — when motivation fades and doubts arise — is a true
test of character. If our behaviors are aligned with our highest aims, despite resistance or
boredom or fear, then let us to persist just another hour, just another day, along the
peaceful warrior's way.

“A warrior does not give up what he loves, he finds the love in what he does” 

“Life has three rules: Paradox, Humor, and Change.

- Paradox: Life is a mystery; don't waste your time trying to figure it out.

- Humor: Keep a sense of humor, especially about yourself. It is a strength beyond all measure

- Change: Know that nothing ever stays the same.” 

“If you don't get what you want, you suffer; if you get what you don't want, you suffer; even 
when you get exactly what you want, you still suffer because you can't hold on to it forever.
” 

“everyone tells you what's good for you. they don't want you to find your own answers. they want you to believe theirs.” 

“Everything you'll ever need to know is within you; the secrets of the universe are imprinted on the cells of your body.” 

“Moderation? It's mediocrity, fear, and confusion in disguise. It's the devil's dilemma. It's neither doing nor not doing. It's the wobbling compromise that makes no one happy. Moderation is for the bland, the apologetic, for the fence-sitters of the world afraid to take a stand. It's for those afraid to laugh or cry, for those afraid to live or die. Moderation...is lukewarm tea, the devil's own brew.” 

“you can live a whole life time never being awake.” 

“. . . Action always happens in the present, because it is an expression of the body, which can only exist in the here and now. But the mind is like a phantom that lives only in the past or future. It's only power over you is to draw your attention out of the present.” 

“...he asked, "Where are you today, right now?"
Eagerly, I started talking about myself. However, I noticed that I was still being sidetracked from getting answers to my questions. Still, I told him about my distant and recent past and about my inexplicable depressions. He listened patiently and intently, as if he had all the time in the world, until I finished several hours later.
"Very well," he said. "But you still have not answered my question about where you are."
"Yes I did, remember? I told you how I got to where I am today: by hard work."
"Where are you?"
"What do you mean, where am I?"
"Where Are you?" he repeated softly.
"I'm here."
"Where is here?"
"In this office, in this gas station!" I was getting impatient with this game.
"Where is this gas station?"
"In Berkeley?"
"Where is Berkeley?"
"In California?"
"Where is California?"
"In the United States?"
"On a landmass, one of the continents in the Western Hemisphere. Socrates, I..."
"Where are the continents?
I sighed. "On the earth. Are we done yet?"
"Where is the earth?"
"In the solar system, third planet from the sun. The sun is a small star in the Milky Way galaxy, all right?"
"Where is the Milky Way?"
"Oh, brother, " I sighed impatiently, rolling my eyes. "In the universe." I sat back and crossed my arms with finality.
"And where," Socrates smiled, "is the universe?"
"The universe is well, there are theories about how it's shaped..."
"That's not what I asked. Where is it?"
"I don't know - how can I answer that?"
"That is the point. You cannot answer it, and you never will. There is no knowing about it. You are ignorant of where the universe is, and thus, where you are. In fact, you have no knowledge of where anything is or of What anything is or how is came to be. Life is a mystery.
"My ignorance is based on this understanding. Your understanding is based on ignorance. This is why I am a humorous fool, and you are a serious jackass.”

“The world's a puzzle; no need to make sense out of it." - Socrates” 

“The warrior is Here, Now.” 

“It's a thought," I said with a grin.
"That's exactly what it is, Dan - a thought - no more real than the shadow of a shadow. Consciousness is not In the body; the body is In Consciousness. And you Are that Consciousness - no the phantom mind that troubles you so. You are the body, but you are everything else, too. That is what your visions revealed to you. Only the mind resists change. When you relax mindless into the body, you are happy and content and free, sensing no separation. Immortality is Already yours, but not in the same way you imagined or hope for. You have been immortal since before you were born and will be long after the body dissolves. The body is in Consciousness; never born; never dies; only changes. The mind - your ego, personal beliefs, history, and identity - is all that ends at death. And who needs it?" Socrates leaned back into his chair.
"I'm not sure all of that sank in."
"Of course not." He laughed. "Words mean little unless you realize the truth of it yourself. And when you do, you'll be free at last.”

“I had lost my mind and fallen into my heart.” 

“The birth of the mind is the death of the senses” 

“Wake up! If you knew for certain that you had a terminal illness - if you had precious little time left to make use of your life and consider who you are, you'd not waste time on self-indulgence or fear, lethargy or ambition. Be happy now, without reason - or you never will be at all.” 

“Wake up! Wake up! Soon the person you believe you are will die - so now, wake up and be content with this knowledge: there is no need to search; achievement leads to nowhere. It makes no difference at all, so just be happy now! Love is the only reality of the world, because it is all ONE, you see. And the only laws are paradox, humor, and change. There is no problem, never was, and never will be. Release your struggle, let go of your mind, throw away your concerns, and relax into the world. No need to resist life; just do your best. Open your eyes and see that you are for more than you imagine. you are the world, you are the universe; you are yourself and everyone else too! It's all the marvelous Play of God. Wake up, regain your humor. Don't worry, just be happy. You are already free!” 

“Enlightenment is not an attainment, it is a realization. And when you wake up, everything changes and nothing changes.” 

 Everything has a purpose, even this, and it's up to you to find it.

 I call myself a Peaceful Warrior... because the battles we fight are on the inside

This moment is the only thing that matters.

There is no starting or stopping - only doing.

Sometimes you have to lose your mind before you come to your senses.

There's no greater purpose than service to others.

Death isn't sad. The sad thing is: most people don't live at all.

The Way of Action
He sat up on the floor and turned to face me, making a final point.
“Your feelings and reactions, Dan, are automatic and predictable;
mine are not. I create my life spontaneously;
yours is determined by your thoughts, your emotions, your past.”

For years I used my emotions and my past as reasons for behaving as I did. Socrates pulled
the rug out from under those excuses by insisting that I reclaim the power to behave with
courage and compassion no matter what I was feeling or thinking.
That is why Socrates focused on the body, the doing, the behavior. His thoughts and
emotions, both positive and negative, flowed through him without resistance or
attachment. They no longer determined his behavior. He was free to behave according to
a higher will.
In demonstrating his freedom from his inner, subjective world and his underlying
tendencies, Socrates showed me a new way of living — the way of action.
--
Becoming Responsible:
So it comes to this: No matter what our past experiences, except in the choice of severe
delusion and mental illness, we retain the power to choose the best course of action we can within the context of our environment and circumstances. But reclaiming the power
to choose requires resolve and fortitude. That's why “becoming fully human” —
overcoming our primitive tendencies — was, in Soc’s words, the biggest challenge. “After
you become human,” he once said, “the rest is an elevator ride.” Meanwhile, every day
represents the challenge to develop a peaceful heart and warrior spirit. We are all
peaceful warriors in training.

Accepting Change:
Some of us are unhappy with aspects of our life and desire inner or outer change. But
when life is good (or sometimes not so good) we may resist change due to fear of the
unknown. We may resist the natural changes brought by passing years. (Never mind aging
gracefully; we don't want to age at all!) But change (with paradox and humor) is one of the House Rules.

Despite all our hopes and efforts and strategies, change is the only constant. When
Socrates quoted that old Confucian proverb, he meant that the ignorant are like stones
and the wise are like water. Stones do not change; they only break or wear down over
time; water remains the same even as it adapts perfectly to the shape of its container;
even when moving from ice to liquid to gas, its essential nature remains.
The wise among us retain their balance while surfing the waves of change; they float
effortlessly down even the most powerful rivers. They represent the still center of the raging cyclone.

Eventually we all learn the inevitability of change and wisdom of flexibility and
acceptance, since nothing stays the same. Until then we resist, and such resistance
creates stress, suffering, and pain. But pain generates learning. As literary sage Marcel
Proust once put it: “To goodness and wisdom we only make promises; we obey pain.”

We’ve all experienced physical, emotional, and mental pain — and that pain has left us a
little stronger, wiser, and maybe more compassionate. As the philosophical writer Albert
Camus wrote, "In the midst of winter I discovered within me an invincible summer." Our
souls make the greatest strides in the face of adversity: a bankruptcy, a divorce, an illness,
an injury, a death in the family. Such challenges forge our character and temper our spirit
— all for our highest good and learning.

But with that depressing and growing awareness of my
tension came the possibility for relaxing. Awareness of the problem is the beginning of the solution.



As my question to Socrates implied, I had expected a payoff for my efforts of going
through his wringer. Things were supposed to feel better, but it seemed like I was getting
worse. This phenomenon of seeming worse before things get better is common, even
necessary, and it doesn’t just occur in the arena of spiritual practice. We experience this
disillusioning perception in any process that involves growth or progress in a high-skill
activity — in sports or music or martial arts training.

Just handle what's in front of you now, and the future will take care of itself. Otherwise, you'll spend most of your life wondering which foot you'll use to step off the curb when you're still only halfway to the corner.

All paths, all activities - professions, sports, arts, crafts serve as a means of internal development, merely a boat to cross the river. Once you get across, you no longer need the boat.

It's not the way to the peaceful warrior; it's the way of the peaceful warrior. The journey itself creates the warrior. 

The Arabs have a saying: 'Trust in God, but tie
your camel.'

Forget about likes and dislikes; they are of no consequence. Just do what must be done. This may not be happiness, but it is greatness.

- grave
Remember, friend, as you pass by,
As you are now, so once was I.
As I am now, so you must be.
Prepare yourself to follow me.

The first step to change is accepting reality right now. Compasionate self-awareness leads to change; harsh self-criticism only holds the patterns in place, creating a stubborn and defensive Basic Self. Be gentle with yourself as you would with a child. Be gentle but firm.

You don't have to know everything about the ocean to swim in it.

I want to be thoroughly used up when I die, for the harder I work, the more I live. I rejoice in life for it's own sake. Life is no 'brief candle' to me; it is a sort of splendid torch wich I have got hold for the moment, and I want to make it burn as brightly as possible.

Do what I could then let go.

// zen
	The native allies in the war had called it the way of Zen, 
		the journey to arrive at the pure and frozen moment, 
		achieved only after long arduous training and concentration 
		and determination to be perfect.
	
<q>Life's a bitch so if it's easy you'r doing it wrong !</q>

// Georg Christoph Lichtenberg
With most men, unbelief in one thing springs from blind belief in another.

If the only tool you have is a hammer, you tend to see every problem as a nail.—Abraham Maslow

Those who speak most of progress measure it by quantity and not by quality.—George Santayana

The scholar who cherishes the love of comfort is not fit to be deemed a scholar.—Confucius

Furious activity is no substitute for understanding. —H. H. Williams

Good judgment comes from experience. Experience comes from bad judgment.—Jim Horning

Our life is frittered away by detail. Simplify, simplify.—Henry David Thoreau

// IT
There’s a simple rule designed to grab your attention: “If you’re 
not growing, you’re dying.”

// other

Remind yourself that you don't need anyone's approval. If you're especially sensitive to how people treat you and you often overreact, you might have a strong radar for rejection. You worry that you're doing something wrong if you pick up on any kind of displeasure, and you want to fix it. However, it is important to understand that just because someone isn't happy with you doesn't mean you've done something wrong. In many cases, it means that person isn't happy with themselves and expects you to fill in the blanks (which is impossible).

Stop taking compliments personally, too. If you base your self-worth on how often people compliment and validate you, then you're allowing others to decide how you feel about yourself. If someone compliments you, it's no more personal than a direct insult. They're simply calling it how they see it, and that may or may not be accurate--only you can be the judge of that. If someone compliments you, that doesn’t make you a better person. It makes the person who complimented a better person because they're taking the time to be supportive and encouraging. Your value remains unchanged, because it's something that comes from within.

Life is awesome when this thing called 'work' becomes another way of expressing the passions in your life.

// The four agreements Miguel Ruiz

1. Be impeccable with your word
Speak with integrity. Say only what you mean. Avoid using the word to speak against yourself or to gossip about others. Use the power of your word in the direction of truth and love.

2. Don’t take anything personally
Nothing others do is because of you. What others say and do is a projection of their own reality, their own dream. When you are immune to the opinions and actions of others, you won’t be the victim of needless suffering.

3. Don’t make assumptions
Find the courage to ask questions and to express what you really want. Communicate with others as clearly as you can to avoid misunderstandings, sadness, and drama. With just this one agreement, you can completely transform your life.

4. Always do your best
Your best is going to change from moment to moment; it will be different when you are healthy as opposed to sick. Under any circumstance, simply do your best, and you will avoid self-judgment, self-abuse, and regret.

There are many decisions no matter what you choose you will have regret and be anxious. 
Life is not without regret, learn to handle disappointments.

You are suffering; you do not fundamentally enjoy your life.
Your entertainments, your playful affairs, and even your gymnastics are
temporary ways to distract you from
your underlying sense of fear.”
“You use them to distract you from your chaotic inner life — the parade of
regrets, anxieties, and fantasies you call your mind.

“The rain was a perfectly lawful display of nature.
Your ‘upset’ at the ruined picnic and your ‘happiness’
when the sun reappeared were the product of your thoughts.
They had nothing to do with the actual events. Haven’t you been
‘unhappy’ at celebrations for example?
It is obvious then that your mind, not other people or your
surroundings, is the source of your moods.”

Soc’s comments on our rained-out picnic began my instruction in one of the “House
Rules,” or spiritual laws, he described to me: the principle of acceptance, or surrender.
Stress and suffering happen when the mind resists what is. It’s not that we have to like
everything equally (though imagine what your life would be like if you did!); we may
certainly prefer pleasure to pain, for example. But we no longer get quite so attached to
our preferences. To put it another way, our preferences expand to embrace all of our life
experiences. As the saying goes, “The measure of our sorrows is also the measure of our
joy.” Or, “When you can love hell, you’ll be in heaven.”


I decided to try and take up the normal life
I’d tossed aside months ago. . . . My life became an ordeal.
Other people’s laughter hurt my ears.
I’d begun to drift through the routine of school like a phantom.
My world was turning inside out and upside down. I had tried to
rejoin the old ways I knew, to motivate myself in
my studies and training, but nothing made sense anymore.

Socrates once said, “I call myself a peaceful warrior because the important battles are
inside.” This was my inner battle — a time of disillusionment, cynicism, and mental
paralysis. I felt frozen in place, stuck between two worlds, belonging fully to neither one.
I wanted to go back, but I had seen too much to do so; yet I couldn’t see a way to go
forward.
As my psyche went through this process of reorganization, I experienced a time of
profound disorientation and suffering, not unlike that of those suffering from mental
illness. This was my dark night of the soul, as various spiritual traditions have identified it.
If faced squarely, making it through such an experience can lead to greater light and a
newfound sense of compassion.

A New Way of Living
By losing “your mind,” Socrates was not referring to going insane or becoming irrational.
On the contrary, he was talking about paying attention to the reality around me, rather
than merely thinking about it. He served to remove the veil of thought that interfered
with my direct perception. Over time, as my awareness focused on the world around me, I
began to feel the temperature of the air on my skin, smell aromas carried on the breeze,
notice the sights and sounds in this multi-media realm we call daily life.
Soc pulled me out of my subjective mental existence — my preoccupations and
attachments to every passing thought, impulse, or emotion, into the spacious sensory
world where I finally let go of the small self and awoke to a larger life.


“Stressful thoughts reflect a conflict with reality.
Stress happens when the mind resists what is.”
“When you understand the source, you’ll see that
the ripples of your mind have nothing to do with you;
you’ll just watch them, without attachment,
no longer compelled to overreact
every time a pebble drops.
You will be free of the world’s turbulence as soon as
you stop taking your thoughts so seriously.”

One of the lessons most difficult to grasp — at least for me — was that my emotional and
mental suffering came not so much from what was happening, but from my thoughts
about what was happening. As Mark Twain wrote, “I’ve had many troubles in my life, most
of which never happened.”


The term peaceful warrior is itself a paradox — how can we be both at the same time? Yet
when these two apparent opposites combine, they form a whole that is greater than the
sum of the parts: courage and love — a peaceful heart, a warrior spirit.
Humor, in Socrates' view, involved far more than jokes that provoke laughter. The humor
to which he referred is divine humor, which flows from a transcendental perspective —
not taking life or death, self or world, quite so seriously. When viewing the world through
our own two eyes, life can seem extremely serious at times. But seen from God’s eyes (or
Soc's), as viewed from the infinite void of space with its billions of whirling galaxies, our
relationship issues or leaking plumbing come into their proper in perspective, and humor
is restored.
Change, as I've noted, is a law of reality. The Greek philosopher-statesman Marcus
Aurelius said, “Life is a river of passing events; no sooner is one thing brought to sight
than it is swept away and another takes its place, and this, too, will be swept away.”
Our thoughts, feelings and reality change moment to moment; even the cells of our body
are constantly being renewed. Even our personality changes constantly. One moment I’m
kind; another, I’m thoughtless. Even what we call "I" is not a thing but a process, a series
of actions — alternately kind, silly, focused, diffused— sometimes this, sometimes that.
And the world changes around us, moment to moment, day to day, year to year. People
come and go, are born and die, enter and exit. We want the love to last forever; we cling
to possessions. But all that is mortal dies, all matter turns to dust, and we lose all that we
love. As the Buddha said, "Everything that begins also ends. Make peace with that and all
will be well."
As Socrates pointed out, the more we accept paradox, humor, and change, the more
skillfully we ride the River of Reality. So let's make peace with paradox, view the world
through a humorous eye, and embrace change without resistance, like the poet Masahide,
who wrote, “Now that my house has burned down, I have a better view of the rising
moon.”

As the man drove away, the truth of Soc’s words sank in.
He really was completely happy! Nothing seemed to affect
his happy mood. In all the time I’d known him,
he had acted angry, sad, gentle, tough, humorous,
and even concerned. But always, a kind of peace and happiness
had shone in his eyes, even when they brimmed with tears.

When Socrates placed an emphasis on happiness, he was referring to a different sort of
state than the passing emotion that we normally refer to as “feeling good.” He was
talking about a warrior spirit — radiating positive energy and light into the world even as
surface emotions rise and pass. This distinction is central to the entire book and to the
peaceful warrior’s way: Socrates never believed, nor have I, that the end point of human
evolution is walking around with a self-satisfied, gleeful smile on our faces.

At this point in my life, I experience an underlying sort of happiness-okayness even as I
feel the normal emotional ups and downs of life. And many of us have felt melancholy and
happy at the same time — an example of the paradoxical nature of emotions.

If we persist in trying to “feel better about ourselves” while assuming that we are these
temporary little personalities walking around and problem solving all day, we are not
likely to feel happy except in momentary incidents of pleasure or satisfaction, when we
hear good news or get what we want. But such feel-good moments are fleeting, and soon
we're off seeking the next one.
It has become clear to me — and it just took sixty years and a great deal of experience to
reach even this tentative conclusion — that what we truly seek is meaning, purpose and
connection; we seek the transcendent. And the only way to experience unconditional bliss
is to have realized our divine source and nature — to experience complete liberation from
the separate self.

Socrates had realized the transcendent secret of our existence, so that even in moments
of sorrow or pain or loss or facing his own death, he knew who he was, that eternal
Awareness that transcends all play, all appearances, all limitations. He was free and
happy, even while changing the oil of an old pick-up truck or trying to instill some sense
into a naïve and self-important young athlete like me.
That is what he meant when he asked me if I was completely happy. He forced me to
confront the reality that beneath my confident surface, and despite all my achievements
and youth, I felt empty and afraid and confused. He had something I wanted. And that
kept me around when the going got tough.

Joy gently turned my face to hers and looked into my eyes.
“Socrates has a message for you, Danny;
he asked me to tell you this story:”
An old man and his son worked a small farm, with only one horse
to pull the plow. One day, the horse ran away.
“How terrible,” sympathized the neighbors. “What bad luck.”
“Who knows whether bad luck or good luck,” the farmer replied.
A week later, the horse returned from the mountains,
leading five wild mares into the barn.
“What wonderful luck!” said the neighbors.
“Good luck? Bad luck? Who knows?” answered the old man.
The next day, the son, trying to tame one of the horses,
fell and broke his leg.
“How terrible. What bad luck!”
“Bad luck? Good luck?”
The army came to all the farms to take the young men for war,
but the farmer’s son was of no use to them, so he was spared.
“Good? Bad?”

This story — a favorite for many readers of Way of the Peaceful Warrior — came from Joy,
as she sat on my hospital bed after the injury that was to challenge and change my life.
Her point then, and mine now: When we cease presuming what is ultimately good or bad
and abide in faith — when we meet each moment without judgment or expectation — we
live in a different way. Knowers are an uptight breed, clinging to how things ought to be,
solving problems, struggling to make everything come out “right.” So consider the words
of the Persian poet Rumi: “Out beyond ideas of wrong doing and right doing, there is a
field. I’ll meet you there. And when the soul lies down in that grass, the world is too full
to talk about.”
What would happen if we made no more assumptions about what it all means or how
things should work out, and just let life unfold, making the best of each new wave of pleasure or pain, success or failure — all part of the texture of life. Because what
happened to us, no matter how welcome or tragic or unlikely, should have happened. It
should have happened because it did, and nothing can change that.

Acceptance is the law of life — the most creative, assertive, and intelligent response we
can make to any moment or experience. It turns out that those Borgs on Star Trek were
right: Resistance is futile. (And exhausting!)

When I was teaching children’s gymnastics, the little ones would often push and shove one
another to be first in line. Instead of repeatedly asking them not to shove or push to be
first, I’d wait for them to get in line; then I’d walk to the back of the line, and declare
that last in line was first. After that, they ceased pushing for position. They stopped being
knowers and started waiting to see what would happen. A good policy for life.

That flat tire when we’re late to an important meeting may end up saving us from a fatal
accident at the next intersection — or maybe set us up for one. The point is, we do not
know. Understanding this, we stop trying to play God.
Our struggles provide the best times of learning. Faith is the courage to live as if
everything that happens is for our highest good and learning. So whenever we resist
reality or face a challenge, we can remind ourselves: “Good luck? Bad luck? Who knows?”
This perspective can help anyone to relax more into life, into faith, into mystery. Because
we simply do not know.

“Nothing wrong with anger or any other emotion.
Just pay attention to how you behave.
Anger is a powerful tool to transform old habits
and replace them with new ones.
Fear and sorrow inhibit action; anger generates it.
When you learn to make proper use of your anger,
you can change fear and sorrow to anger,
then turn anger to action.
That’s the body’s secret of internal alchemy.”
“How can I control my habits
if I can’t even control my emotions?”
“You don’t need to control emotion,” he said.
“Emotions are natural, like passing weather.
The key is to transform the energy of emotion
into constructive action.”

A man I once counseled told me he suffered from bouts of rage and wanted to know how
he could “stop getting so angry.” I suggested that it might be more useful to address his
behavior rather than his anger. The problem was not his rage; it was how he behaved
when he felt that rage.
We humans tend to live a soap-opera existence, letting our emotions run the show. (To
see examples of emotion-centered lives, watch a television soap opera — or watch your
relatives.) Believing that we have emotional problems, we seek ways to feel more positive
emotions (like confidence and courage and compassion and motivation and passion) and to
rid ourselves of negative emotions (like fear and sorrow and anger) so that we can live
well and behave better and accomplish more.

We hope that the next motivational speaker or self-help text or counselor can help us to
focus on and find techniques or perspectives to “manage” our emotions. But we do not
need to change our emotions; they are fine and natural as they are. We need to change
our behavior.
There are two basic methods to affect this change in behavior and reach our goals:
The first method is both complicated and popular: We can quiet our mind and create
empowering beliefs, practice positive self-talk, find our focus, and affirm our power in
order to free our emotions (and visualize positive outcomes), so that we can finally
develop the confidence to generate the courage to find the determination to make the
commitment to feel sufficiently motivated to do whatever it is we need to do.
The second method is far more direct: We can just do it.

In a more ideal world populated by saints, everyone would immediately opt for the second
method. But in the real world, few people will “just quit” an addictive substance, or
“simply exercise more and eat less” to lose weight. Many of us need a period of time and
a step-by-step process to adapt to a new way of living. Group support, appropriate
programs, and therapeutic processes can serve as a transition to finally “just doing it.”
The caterpillar does not become a butterfly overnight. Some transformations take a little
time.
So let’s be gentle with ourselves as we turn knowing into doing, and as we learn to use our
emotions (instead of the other way around). As Mahatma Gandhi said, “As heat conserved
becomes energy, our anger can become a power which can move the world.”

Over time, though, I began to feel a growing resistance.
I complained to Socrates, in spite of his dark look.
“Soc, you’re no fun anymore. You’ve become
an ordinary grumpy old man; you never even glow.”
“No more magic tricks,” was all he said.
That was just it — no tricks, no sex, no potato chips,
no hamburgers, no candy, no donuts, no fun, and no rest;
only discipline inside and out.

After a moment of exquisite anger, I found myself laughing.
He laughed, too, pointing at me. “Dan, you just experienced
an alchemical transformation —
you just transmuted anger to laughter.”
Most of us can recall being upset — angry, sad, or even crying — and then having a sudden
shift of perspective, only to find ourselves laughing. This moment of humor, of
transcendence, isn’t so different from the laughter generated by the punch line of a joke.
In this upward shift to a larger perspective, what made us angry or sad now seems
humorous, even silly or absurd. It is as if we suddenly remember that we are actors
performing a scene in the drama of our lives. Seeing ourselves as characters on a stage,
stepping out from behind our own eyes, we regain our sense of perspective.
That is the “alchemical transformation” to which Socrates was referring. The act of selfobservation
— the ability to make this shift from conventional seriousness to divine humor
— is one of the most significant spiritual capacities we can develop. It requires only the
willingness and awareness to step outside ourselves, turn around, and see our dramas and
antics and posturing from a distance, and our humor is restored.

A Moment of Grace
Walking home, I was so overwhelmed with gratitude that I knelt outside my apartment
and touched the earth. Taking a handful of dirt in my hand, I gazed up through emerald
leaves shimmering in the breeze. For a few precious seconds, I seemed to slowly melt
into the earth. Then, for the first time since I was a young boy, I felt a life-giving
Presence without a name.
In these moments, I communed with a presence that was greater and more loving than
anything I had ever known. It transcended all earthly problems and made everything okay,
like a mother’s embrace.
This experience seemed so obviously and eternally present, I later wondered why I wasn’t
aware of it all the time. As an old proverb goes, “There’s God; then there’s not paying
attention.” I had not been paying attention, because I was caught up in the usual
subliminal mutterings about my daily to-do list and problems.
That spiritual presence surrounds and embraces us, right now and in every moment. We
are not likely going to hear the weather person announce, “There’s a twenty-percent
chance of rain, and thirty-percent chance of Spirit out today.”
There is no lack of divine support and nourishment; we are never abandoned. We have
only to find the free attention to look above and beyond. At its best, that is what religion
and spiritual practices are about. The practices and rituals, the chanting, singing, and
prayers, are simply ways to draw our attention to that eternal presence I felt on a quiet
evening, in a few moments of grace.


We’ve all experienced physical, emotional, and mental pain — and that pain has left us a
little stronger, wiser, and maybe more compassionate. As the philosophical writer Albert
Camus wrote, "In the midst of winter I discovered within me an invincible summer." Our
souls make the greatest strides in the face of adversity: a bankruptcy, a divorce, an illness,
an injury, a death in the family. Such challenges forge our character and temper our spirit
— all for our highest good and learning.


How to Negotiate: NEVER SPLIT THE DIFFERENCE by Chris Voss | Core Message

Tactical empathy: Empathize with their situation then get them to empathize with your situation.
A psychiatrist will encourage the patient to talk while she/he listens, from time to time she/he will jump
in to clarify what the patient is saying and feeling. They do this because a patient will be less defensive and less opposed to change if they can make them feel heard.

	In a negotiation your counterpart will be uncomfortable negotiating with you and resist your 
counteroffers until they feel heard and you can empathize with their cares and concerns.

	A woman tried to sell a doctor a new drug that will replace another drug he already used. At first he was 
cold and skeptical "Nothing can convince me to switch medication". Although the initial pitch started terrible Susan noticed from the body language and voice that this doctor cared for his patients and he seemed warmer when he talked about them so she said: You seem very passionate about treating your patients, I can see how hard you work to tailor the treatment for each and every patient. The doctor paused and looked at her like he seen her for the very first time and said "That's right. I feel like treating an epidemic that the other doctor are not picking on, which means a lot of patients are not treated adequately". From that moment on the doctor let down his guard and was willing to listen to what Susan had to say. When Susan brought the positive attributes of the drug he was willing to listen. By the end of the meeting the doctor was willing to try the new medication and place an order that day. The magical word that turned the conversation with the doctor was that's right. 
	If you make your counterpart say "That's right." then you know you made them feel heard and they will be 
more receptive to any offers and counteroffer.
	A negotiation doesn't start until you hear the words "That's right". Listen to the emotions behind their 
words and spot a deep care or concern related to the negotiation then summarize with a concise statement 
"It seems like..." or "It sounds like..." as in : "It seems like you're really concerned about ____" or "It sound like ________ is really important to you.". You can use these because if you are wrong you do not damage the conversation, you can follow up with "I didn't say that's how it was it just seems that way". But if your counterpart confirms your statement with a "That's right." it's time to make them empathize with your situation. 
	To make the counterpart empathize with you problem you ask Calibrated questions( Open-ended questions 
that start with "how" or "what"), they turn a negotiation from a confrontation to a problem-solving session. Ultimated calibrated question: "How am I supposed to do that ?".

	Problem: Landlord wants 1500$ for rent, you can only pay 1200$. 

	With the question in mind: How am I supposed to do that ? As if you are saying "I value your intelligence, can you please help me solve my problem ?"
	
	You: It seems like you think your apartment is undervalued... But how am I supposed to pay 1500$ when ...
	Landlord: Ok I can offer you 1400$
	You: That's very generous of you, that's probably the lowest price you can go, but I'm sorry, I don't see how am I supposed to that when I can rent nearby for less than 1200$ a month.

	This technique of politely countering every offer with some version of "How am I supposed to do that ?" is precisely how Chris Voss made those Harvard students(that studied cutting-edge negotiating techniques) to offer up all their budget in the mock negotiation.


Parkinson's law: Work expands as to fill the time available for it's completion.


When you want to get things done, make a list and schedule to know what and when to do. Be realistic, take into account that things may take longer to achieve. Better to achieve a few things a day than to fail achieving your goal for that day, because you tried to do too much and didn't take into consideration for ex. the time it takes to travel from A to B. When you achieve your goals at the end of the day you feel good and stay motivated.


Marcus Aurelius: "Our only duty is to hold ourselves accountable for our own actions and do what it's on our power to serve the common good."

No matter what happened to him he did what it was in his power to do, for everything else he trusted the will of nature. Serve the common good love all that happens to you.


When things are going bad there's gonna be some good that's gonna come from it.
	Mission got canceled, good we can focus on another one.
	Didn't get the new high speed gear we wanted. Good, we can keep it simple.
	Didn't get promoted. Good more time to get better.
	Didn't get funded. Good we own more of the company.
	Didn't get the job. Good, you can get more experience and build a better resume.
	Got injured, sprained your ankle. Good, you needed a break from training.
	Got taped out. Good, better to tap in training than to tap out on the street.
	Got beat. Good, you learned.
	Unexpected problems. Good we have an opportunity to figure out a solution.


The best way to combat bad habits is to replace them with good ones. Habits don't just go away, like riding a bike, even if you took a break for 10 years in half an hour of practice you can be almost as good as you used to be, you did not completely forget how to ride the bike


The mind takes you in directions that are secure, you have to force yourself to do the hard but necessary things that are going to make you a better person.
	 We want the happy feeling, the comfort not bad or nasty situations. If you don't face and overcome those 
situation that make you feel uncomfortable, insecure etc., you will not grow. 


Don't pursue things easy to obtain that provide short bursts of pleasure(candy, video games, drugs, prn).


Instead of searching for your passion or purpose, keep it simple, ask what energizes you. If it's money 
figure out how to make money, if it's something else figure it out etc..
	Passion is energy and it dissipates over time. Once you learn how to do a thing it becomes routine and 
it stops energizing you. Once this happens you have to search for the next thing that energizes you.


	You are not a procrastinator, you have a habit to procrastinate. Procrastination is a form of stress
relief.
	You have stuff going in your life like, a failed investment, you fought with your significant other, the 
health of your loved ones is in decline etc., when you reach work and you know you have to make calls to people that you know are going to stress you, your mind will be: "No, I don't want to call my superior, it's scares me, lets watch cat videos for five minutes." The problem is when you wake up you realize an hour passed not five minutes and then you beat yourself up, adding more negative feelings.
	All habits have three parts: trigger, pattern and reward.
In the case of procrastination the trigger is stress, the pattern is to avoid doing something, the reward get a little stress relief. 
	You cannot deal with the trigger, stuff happens and it will stress you. You can change the pattern of 
avoiding work.
	1. Acknowledge the stress(Something is stressing me, what is it.)
	2. Count 5..=1 
	3. This interrupts the habit by awakening the prefrontal cortex.
	4. Just work, for 5 minutes and do just one thing. Why working ? Because your problem is not the act of
	 WORKING it's the habit of avoiding. Eighty percent of the people that start working will keep working.

Aim for meaningful things than for happiness.


The cats that are the most catlike(with better mental health) are the cats that live outside. Unfortunately most only live 3-5 years (they fall prey to other predators, disease, parasites, infected wounds, bad weather), indoor cats live 12-18 years.


Things that are not relevant for your goals, don't cause problems or get in the way are invisible. That way some people are invisible blobs. But what happens when something goes wrong ? An indeterminate set of entities that were irrelevant become relevant, the invisibility disappears.


Yesterday is history, tomorrow is a mystery but today is a gift.
That is why it is called the present.


Your opinions and your perceptions are fallible.


It's easy to criticize anybody can do it, but it's hard to do things perfect.
Many people blame other things find excuses and avoid responsibility for their failures.

Most other people think they are better than you, that's what keeps them going in their pathetic life. They 
want to be better, when they can't they fool themselves, they want to give advice to make themselves feel 
superior, they want to be listened, to pay attention to they words, they want to push you down to feel 
better.

Warrior and healer, are a very efficient combination. But, people don't want to be healer for various reasons( it's boring, you don't get credit etc.). The same with sports, nobody wants to be 
the goalkeeper. In life partners have to complement each other, one works while the other takes care of the 
kid or kids. One has a role that it's viewed as more important more glamorous while the other has a support 
role that it's viewed as boring and not so significant yet if they don't work together and complement each 
other they won't reach far.
Two warriors will fail sooner than a warrior and healer, a football team will lose without a goalkeeper, a marriage will not last, or it will be unpleasant with both parents workaholics. 
	The support role is not glamorous but necessary, people look down on the support or simply treat it as 
invisible.
	There are men who do dirty jobs but necessary for our very own survival yet they are looked down especially by women. For example if we don't have a good sewage system all of us could get really sick and might die. But people that work in that domain are looked down upon.


People at work most likely are not your friends, they are there for the paycheck.

Arguing with idiots is like playing chess with a pigeon. No matter how good you are, the bird is going to shit on the board and strut around like it won anyway.


You can't save people from their problems.


Prayer of serenity
	God, grant me the serenity to accept the things i cannot change, the courage to change the things I can,
and the wisdom to know the difference.


A guy got a diploma in kinesiology after 3 or 4 years of college witch he paid, everything was theoretical. When he wanted to get hired as a personal trainer he got tested, he was supposed to do a lat row but he sat backwards on the machine. It was embarrassing, he got his time wasted in


The problem of problems does not go away, even if you solved your problems some of your close relatives definitely didn't solve theirs. If you think that sometime in the future you will get everything together and reach a plateau were you are pretty much satisfied that's never going to happen.

That was simply how the human psyche worked. The moment they were directly involved in a problem, the fairness of the situation no longer mattered. Only gains and losses were important.


Enjoy the process don't put to much effort in thinking how good you are going to feel when you achieve your goal.


Not having a sense of purpose makes us more vulnerable to anxiety, boredom and depression. Because we have a desire for purpose. A thirst for a mission, a quest and drive to fulfill it.


You think you want to start a business but what you want is a quest, a mission to give you purpose and meaning. You can fit purpose and meaning working with an organization, find it on your free time, you can find it on the weekend. If you don't know where to start, start with the things you are interested in or simply the things that make you feel good(for example some people feel good cooking and they became chefs) sometimes these things are just breadcrumbs that lead you to your quest.

In order to do really big things you have to start doing deceptively small things.


The One Daily Habit You Need to Succeed (It's not what you think) video. Journaling.


-------------------<worry book>

// worry book
Prevent fatigue. If you are fatigued cure it. Don't get exited(waste of energy and might change state of mind).
Close eyes to relax, they consume too much energy(crumpled sock).
Stop multiple times per day and relax.
The high cost of getting even.
Do the best you can and prepare your umbrella for the rain of criticism.
Review day at the end of the day.
They were chased by the clock. To cure this sense of hurry, and worry, the suggestion was made that they draw up a schedule each night for the following day.

They were chased by the clock. To cure this sense of hurry, and worry, the suggestion was made that they draw up a schedule each night for the following day.

"The sense of must or obligation; the unending stretch of things ahead that simply have to be done."

Make it interesting, challenge everyday.

the pupils of the eyes were rolled upward in the sockets

When I am faced with the kind of problems that used to drive me half crazy, I now calmly set about trying to apply the three steps outlined in Chapter 2, Part One. First, I ask myself what is the worst that can possibly happen. Second, I try to accept it mentally. Third, I concentrate on the problem and see how I can improve the worst which I am already willing to accept- if I have to.
When I find myself worrying about a thing I cannot change -and do not want to accept-I stop myself short and repeat this little prayer:

"God grant me the serenity
to accept the things I cannot change,
the courage to change the things I can,
and wisdom to know the difference."

---

I discovered years ago that although I couldn't keep people from criticising me unjustly, I could do something infinitely more important: I could determine whether I would let the unjust condemnation disturb me.
I am talking about ignoring only unjust criticism.
"Never be bothered by what people say, as long as you know in your heart you are right."

So finally I said to myself: 'If you get your head above the crowd, you're going to be criticised. So get used to the idea.' That helped me tremendously. From that time on I made it a rule to do the very best I could and then put up my old umbrella and let the rain of criticism drain off me instead of running down my neck."

"If I were to try to read, much less to answer, all the attacks made on me, this shop might as well be closed for any other business. I do the very best I know how- the very best I can; and I mean to keep on doing so until the end. If the end brings me out all right, then what is said against me won't matter. If the end brings me out wrong, then ten angels swearing I was right would make no difference."

I know that statement may be true many times; yet when anyone starts to criticise me, if I do not watch myself, I instantly and automatically leap to the defensive-even before I have the slightest idea what my critic is going to say. I am disgusted with myself every time I do it. We all tend to resent criticism and lap up praise, regardless of whether either the criticism or the praise be justified. We are not creatures of logic. We are creatures of emotions. Our logic is like a canoe tossed about on a deep, dark, stormy sea of emotion. Most of us have a pretty good opinion of ourselves as we are now. But in forty years from now, we may look back and laugh at the persons we are today.

why not stop and say: "Just a minute. ... I am far from perfect. If Einstein admits he is wrong ninety-nine per cent of the time, maybe I am wrong at least eighty per cent of the time. Maybe I deserve this criticism. If I do, I ought to be thankful for it, and try to profit by it."

RULE 1: Unjust criticism is often a disguised compliment. It often means that you have aroused jealousy and envy. Remember that no one ever kicks a dead dog.
RULE 2: Do the very best you can; and then put up your old umbrella and keep the rain of criticism from running down the back of your neck.
RULE 3: Let's keep a record of the fool things we have done and criticise ourselves. Since we can't hope to be perfect, let's do what E. H. Little did: let's ask for unbiased, helpful, constructive criticism.

Why am I writing a chapter on preventing fatigue in a book on preventing worry? That is simple: because fatigue often produces worry, or, at least, it makes you susceptible to worry. Any medical student will tell you that fatigue lowers physical resistance to the common cold and hundreds of other diseases and any psychiatrist will tell you that fatigue also lowers your resistance to the emotions of fear and worry. So preventing fatigue tends to prevent worry.

He declares that any nervous or emotional state "fails to exist in the presence of complete relaxation". That is another way of saying: You cannot continue to worry if you relax.

So, to prevent fatigue and worry, the first rule is: Rest often. Rest before you get tired.

Let me repeat: do what the Army does-take frequent rests.

Worry, tenseness, and emotional upsets are three of the biggest causes of fatigue. Often they are to blame when physical or mental work seems to be the cause. ... Remember that a tense muscle is a working muscle. Ease up! Save energy for important duties."

Here is an astonishing and tragic truth: millions of people who wouldn't dream of wasting dollars go right on wasting and squandering their energy with the recklessness of seven drunken sailors in Singapore.
What is the answer to this nervous fatigue? Relax! Relax! Relax! Learn to relax while you are doing your work!

Tension is a habit. Relaxing is a habit. And bad habits can be broken, good habits formed.

You always begin to relax with your muscles!

"The reason you injured yourself was because you don't know how to relax. You have to pretend you are as limp as a sock, as an old crumpled sock. Come, I'll show you how to do it."

And always he insisted: "Think of yourself as an old crumpled sock. Then you've got to relax!"

Think of yourself as free from tension as a baby.

If you haven't got a sock, a cat will do. Did you ever pick up a kitten sleeping in the sunshine? If so, both ends sagged like a wet newspaper. Even the yogis in India say that if you want to master the art of relaxation, study the cat. I never saw a tired cat, a cat with a nervous breakdown, or a cat suffering from insomnia, worry, or stomach ulcers. You will probably avoid these disasters if you learn to relax as the cat does.

Test yourself again at the end of the day, by asking yourself: "Just how tired am I? If I am tired, it is not because of the mental work I have done but because of the way I have done it." "I measure my accomplishments," says Daniel W. Josselyn, "not by how tired I am at the end of the day, but how tired I am not." He says: "When I feel particularly tired at the end of the day, or when irritability proves that my nerves are tired, I know beyond question that it has been an inefficient day both as to quantity and quality." If every business man would learn that same lesson, the death rate from "hypertension" diseases would drop overnight. And we would stop filling up our sanatoriums and asylums with men who have been broken by fatigue and worry.

Psycho-analysis is based, to some extent, on this healing power of words. Ever since the days of Freud, analysts have known that a patient could find relief from his inner anxieties if he could talk, just talk. Why is this so? Maybe because by talking, we gain a little better insight into our troubles, get a better perspective. No one knows the whole answer. But all of us know that "spitting it out" or "getting it off our chests" bring almost instant relief.

Make up a schedule for tomorrow's work before you go to bed tonight. The class found that many wives feel driven and harassed by the unending round of housework and things they must do. They never got their work finished. They were chased by the clock. To cure this sense of hurry, and worry, the suggestion was made that they draw up a schedule each night for the following day. What happened? More work accomplished; much less fatigue; a feeling of pride and achievement; and time left over

Close your eyes. You might try saying, as Professor Johnson recommended, something like this: ' 'The sun is shining overhead. The sky is blue and sparkling. Nature is calm and in control of the world-and I, as nature's child, am in tune with the Universe." Or-better still-pray!

"A person with his desk piled high with papers on various matters will find his work much easier and more accurate if he clears that desk of all but the immediate problem on hand. I call this good housekeeping, and it is the number-one step towards efficiency."

The constant reminder of "a million things to do and no time to do them" can worry you not only into tension and fatigue, but it can also worry you into high blood pressure, heart trouble, and stomach ulcers.

After talking to you, I came back here and cleared out a wagon-load of reports and old papers. Now I work at one desk, settle things as they come up, and don't have a mountain of unfinished business nagging at me and making me tense and worried. But the most astonishing thing is I've recovered completely. There is nothing wrong any more with my health!"

"Men do not die from overwork. They die from dissipation and worry."

Those two priceless abilities are: first, the ability to think. Second, the ability to do things in the order of their importance.

I know from long experience that one is not always able to do things in the order of their importance, but I also know that some kind of plan to do first things first is infinitely better than improvising as you go along.

If George Bernard Shaw had not made it a rigid rule to do first things first, he would probably have failed as a writer and might have remained a bank cashier all his life. His plan called for writing five pages each day. That plan and his dogged determination to carry it through saved him. That plan inspired him to go right on writing five pages a day for nine heartbreaking years, even though he made a total of only thirty dollars in those nine years-about a penny a day.

When You Face a Problem, Solve It Then and There if You Have the Facts Necessary to Make a Decision. Don't Keep Putting off Decisions.

Don't dwell too long on the shortcomings of others! Sure, your husband has faults! If he had been a saint, he never would have married you. Right? One woman at the class who found herself developing into a scolding, nagging, and haggard-faced wife, was brought up short with the question: "What would you do if your husband died?" She was so shocked by the idea that she immediately sat down and drew up a list of all her husband's good points. She made quite a list. Why don't you try the same thing the next time you feel you married a tight-fisted tyrant? Maybe you'll find, after reading his virtues, that he's a man you'd like to meet!

"The lucky folks are the ones that get to do the things they enjoy doing." Such folks are lucky because they have more energy, more happiness, less worry, and less fatigue. Where your interests are, there is your energy also. Walking ten blocks with a nagging wife can be more fatiguing than walking ten miles with an adoring sweetheart.

Without perhaps being conscious of it. Miss Vallie Golden was using the famous "as if" philosophy. William James counseled us to act "as if" we were brave, and we would be brave; and to act "as if" we were happy, and we would be happy, and so on.
Act "as if" you were interested in your job, and that bit of acting will tend to make your interest real. It will also tend to decrease your fatigue, your tensions, and your worries.

Every morning before he started out, he looked into the mirror and gave himself a pep talk: "Kaltenborn, you have to do this if you want to eat. Since you have to do it-why not have a good time doing it? Why not imagine every time you ring a door-bell that you are an actor before the footlights and that there's an audience out there looking at you. After all, what you are doing is just as funny as something on the stage. So why not put a lot of zest and enthusiasm into it?"

By talking to yourself every hour of the day, you can direct yourself to think thoughts of courage and happiness, thoughts of power and peace. By talking to yourself about the things you have to be grateful for, you can fill your mind with thoughts that soar and sing.

By thinking the right thoughts, you can make any job less distasteful. Your boss wants you to be interested in your job so that he will make more money. But let's forget about what the boss wants. Think only of what getting interested in your job will do for you. Remind yourself that it may double the amount of happiness you get out of life, for you spend about one half of your waking hours at your work, and if you don't find happiness in your work, you may never find it anywhere. Keep reminding yourself that getting interested in your job will take your mind off your worries, and, in the long run, will probably bring promotion and increased pay. Even if it doesn't do that, it will reduce fatigue to a minimum and help you enjoy your hours of leisure.

"One of the best sleep-producing agents which my years of practice have revealed to me-is prayer. I say this purely as a medical man. The exercise of prayer, in those who habitually exert it, must be regarded as the most adequate and normal of all the pacifiers of the mind and calmers of the nerves."

"Let God-and let go."

But if you are not religious, and have to do things the hard way, then learn to relax by physical measures. Dr. David Harold Fink, who wrote Release from Nervous Tension, says that the best way to do this is to talk to your body. According to Dr. Fink, words are the key to all kinds of hypnosis; and when you consistently can't sleep, it is because you have talked yourself into a case of insomnia. The way to undo this is to dehypnotise yourself-and you can do it by saying to the muscles of your body: "Let go, let go-loosen up and relax."

Dr. Foster Kennedy, the famous neurologist, tells me that during the retreat of the Fifth British Army in 1918, he saw soldiers so exhausted that they fell on the ground where they were and fell into a sleep as sound as a coma. They didn't even wake up when he raised their eyelids with his fingers. And he says he noticed that invariably the pupils of the eyes were rolled upward in the sockets. "After that," says Dr. Kennedy, "when I had trouble sleeping, I would practice rolling up my eyeballs into this position, and I found that in a few seconds I would begin to yawn and feel sleepy. It was an automatic reflex over which I had no control."

So, to keep from worrying about insomnia, here are five rules:
1. If yon can't sleep, do what Samuel Untermyer did. Get up and work or read until you do feel sleepy.
2. Remember that no one was ever killed by lack of sleep. Worrying about insomnia usually causes far more damage than sleeplessness.
3. Try prayer-or repeat Psalm XXIII, as Jeanette MacDonald does.
4. Relax your body. Read the book "Release from Nervous Tension."
5. Exercise. Get yourself so physically tired you can't stay awake.


RULE 1: Rest before you get tired. RULE 2: Learn to relax at your work.
RULE 3: If you are a housewife, protect your health and appearance by relaxing at home
RULE 4: Apply these four good working habits
a. Clear your desk of all papers except those relating to the immediate problem at hand.
b. Do things in the order of their importance.
c. When you face a problem, solve it then and there if you have the facts necessary to make a decision.
d. Learn to organise, deputise, and supervise.
RULE 5: To prevent worry and fatigue, put enthusiasm into your work.
RULE 6: Remember, no one was ever killed by lack of sleep. It is worrying about insomnia that does the damage-not the insomnia

I once heard Charles Schwab say much the same thing. He said: "A man can succeed at almost anything for which he has unlimited enthusiasm."

The point I am trying to make is that vocational-guidance experts, even as you and I, are not infallible. Perhaps you had better consult several of them-and then interpret their findings in the sunlight of common sense

A conviction of the importance of the job at hand was extremely important. Where a man had no interest, where he felt he was misplaced, where he thought he was not appreciated, where he believed his talents were being misused, invariably we found a potential if not an actual psychiatric casualty

How you spend money. Get the facts down on paper.
Get a tailor-made budget that really fits your needs.
Learn how to spend wisely.

Don't increase your headaches with your income.
- in the long run, which is going to bring us more happiness: forcing ourselves to live within a tight budget, or having dunning letters in the mail and creditors pounding on the front door?

Did he leave these women cash? No. He left trust funds that ensured these women a monthly income for life.

Teach your children a responsible attitude toward money.

If necessary, make a little extra money off your kitchen stove.

If we can't possibly improve our financial situation, let's be good to ourselves and stop resenting what can't be changed.

If we can't possibly improve our financial situation, maybe we can improve our mental attitude towards it. Let's remember that other people have their financial worries, too. We may be worried because we can't keep up with the Joneses; but the Joneses are probably worried because they can't keep up with the Ritzes; and the Ritzes are worried because they can't keep up with the Vanderbilts.

"If you have what seems to you insufficient," said one of Rome's greatest philosophers, Seneca, "then you will be miserable even if you possess the world."

I had often heard people say that ninety-nine per cent of the things we worry and stew and fret about never happen, but this old saying didn't mean much to me until I ran across that list of worries I had typed out that dreary afternoon eighteen months previously.

I am thankful now that I had to wrestle in vain with those six terrible worries. That experience has taught me a lesson I'll never forget. It has shown me the folly and tragedy of stewing about events that haven't happened-events that are beyond our control and may never happen.
Remember, today is the tomorrow you worried about yesterday. Ask yourself: How do I KNOW this thing I am worrying about will really come to pass?

Here is a method that deserves a whole chapter. Read history! Try to get the viewpoint of ten thousand years-and see how trivial your troubles are, in terms of eternity.

The seven years I spent with the Arabs convinced me that the neurotics, the insane, the drunks of America and Europe are the product of the hurried and harassed lives we live in our so-called civilisation

You and I are not Mohammedans: we don't want to be fatalists. But when the fierce, burning winds blow over our lives-and we cannot prevent them-let us, too, accept the inevitable. And then get busy and pick up the pieces.

I have always felt that one of the chief reasons for success in life is enthusiasm.

"Sometimes when I have too many things to do all at once, I sit down and relax and smoke my pipe for an hour and do nothing."

"Two months from now I shall not be worrying about this bad break, so why worry about it now? Why not assume now the same attitude that I will have two months from now?"

I long ago learned to avoid the folly of hurry, rush, and working under tension

I have been through the depths of poverty and sickness. When people ask me what has kept me going through the troubles that come to all of us, I always reply: "I stood yesterday. I can stand today. And I will not permit myself to think about what might happen tomorrow."

Yet I have no pity for myself; no tears to shed over the past and gone sorrows; no envy for the women who have been spared all I have gone through. For I have lived. They only existed. I have drank the cup of life down to its very dregs. They have only sipped the bubbles on top of it. I know things they will never know. I see things to which they are blind. It is only the women whose eyes have been washed clear with tears who get the broad vision that makes them little sisters to all the world.

I have learned to live each day as it comes and not to borrow trouble by dreading the morrow. It is the dark menace of the future that makes cowards of us. I put that dread from me because experience has taught me that when the time comes that I so fear, the strength and wisdom to meet it will be given me. Little annoyances no longer have the power to affect me. After you have seen your whole edifice of happiness topple and crash in ruins about you, it never matters to you again that a servant forgets to put the doilies under the finger bowls, or the cook spills the soup.

I have learned not to expect too much of people, and so I can still get happiness out of the friend who isn't quite true to me or the acquaintance who gossips. Above all, I have acquired a sense of humour, because there were so many things over which I had either to cry or laugh. And when a woman can joke over her troubles instead of having hysterics, nothing can ever hurt her much again. I do not regret the hardships I have known, because through them I have touched life at every point I have lived. And it was worth the price I had to pay.

I was surprised to find that I was still alive. Going downstairs, I heard singing in a little chapel where devotional exercises were held each morning. I can still remember the hymn they were singing: "God will take care of you." Going into the chapel, I listened with a weary heart to the singing, the reading of the Scripture lesson, and the prayer. Suddenly-something happened. I can't explain it. I can only call it a miracle. I felt as if I had been instantly lifted out of the darkness of a dungeon into warm, brilliant sunlight. I felt as if I had been transported from hell to paradise. I felt the power of God as I had never felt it before. I realised then that I alone was responsible for all my troubles. I knew that God with His love was there to help me. From that day to this, my life has been free from worry. I am seventy-one years old, and the most dramatic and glorious twenty minutes of my life were those I spent in that chapel that morning: "God will take care of you."

When I find myself worrying and mentally going round in endless circles like a camel turning a water wheel in Egypt, a good physical work-out helps me to chase those "blues" away. It may be running or a long hike in the country, or it may be a half-hour of bag punching or squash tennis at the gymnasium. Whichever it is, physical exercise clears my mental outlook. On a week-end I do a lot of physical sport, such as a run around the golf course, a game of paddle tennis, or a ski week-end in the Adirondacks. By my becoming physically tired, my mind gets a rest from legal problems, so that when I return to them, my mind has a new zest and power.

worry goes when exercise(phisical) begins

Rule 1. Find out precisely what is the problem you are worrying about.
Rule 2. Find out the cause of the problem.
Rule 3. Do something constructive at once about solving the problemn

As I look back at it now, I can see that my problem was one of confusion, a disinclination to find the causes of my worry and face them realistically.

Ericksen, could this possibly be as bad as pulling the cork line?" And Ericksen invariably answers: "No, nothing could be that bad!" So I cheer up and tackle it with courage. I believe it is a good thing to have to endure an agonising experience occasionally. It is good to know that we have hit bottom and survived. That makes all our daily problems seem easy by comparison

I soon found that I couldn't worry about myself and laugh at myself at one and the same time. So I've been laughing at myself ever since.
The point of this is: Don't take yourself too seriously. Try "just laughing" at some of your sillier worries, and see if you can't laugh them out of existence

First, I have always followed a rule of absolute one hundred per cent integrity in everything. When I borrowed money, I paid back every penny. Few things cause more worry than dishonesty.

Second, when I started a new venture, I always kept on ace in the hole. Military experts say that the first principle of fighting a battle is to keep your line of supplies open

But I am not worried. I know that no matter what happens-even if I lose every dollar I have-I can always go back to Oklahoma and get a job working for the Frisco Railway. I have protected my line of supplies.

"If you will turn that over to Me and not worry about it, I will take care of it," and I replied: "Lord, I close the bargain right here."

I am almost thankful now that I had to go through all that misery; it gave me strength, fortitude, and confidence. I know now what it means to hit bottom. I know it doesn't kill you. I know we can stand more than we think we can. When little worries and anxieties and uncertainties try to disturb me now, I banish them by reminding myself of the time I sat on the packing case and said: "I've hit bottom and I've stood it. There is no place to go now but up."
What's the principle here? Don't try to saw sawdust. Accept the inevitable! If you can't go lower, yon can try going up.

To keep up my courage in the ring, I would give myself a pep talk during the fight. For example, while I was fighting Firpo, I kept saying over and over: "Nothing is going to stop me. He is not going to hurt me. I won't feel his blows. I can't get hurt. I am going to keep going, no matter what happens." Making positive statements like that to myself, and thinking positive thoughts, helped me a lot. It even kept my mind so occupied that I didn't feel the blows. During my career, I have had my lips smashed, my eyes cut, my ribs cracked-and Firpo knocked me clear through the ropes, and I landed on a reporter's typewriter and wrecked it. But I never felt even one of Firpo's blows. There was only one blow that I ever really felt. That was the night Lester Johnson broke three of my ribs. The punch never hurt me; but it affected my breathing. I can honestly say I never felt any other blow I ever got in the ring.

Another thing I did was to keep reminding myself of the futility of worry. Most of my worrying was done before the big bouts, while I was going through training. I would often lie awake at nights for hours, tossing and worrying, unable to sleep. I would worry for fear I might break my hand or sprain my ankle or get my eye cut badly in the first round so I couldn't co-ordinate my punches. When I got myself into this state of nerves, I used to get out of bed, look into the mirror, and give myself a good talking to. I would say: "What a fool you are to be worrying about something than hasn't happened and may never happen. Life is short. I have only a few years to live, so I must enjoy life." I kept saying to myself: "Nothing is important but my health. Nothing is important but my health." I kept reminding myself that losing sleep and worrying would destroy my health. I found that by saying these things to myself over and over, night after night, year after year, they finally got under my skin, and I could brush off my worries like so much water.

3. The third-and best-thing I did was pray! While I was training for a bout, I always prayed several times a day. When I was in the ring, I always prayed just before the bell sounded for each round. That helped me fight with courage and confidence. I have never gone to bed in my life without saying a prayer; and I have never eaten a meal in my life without first thanking God for it ... Have my prayers been answered? Thousands of times!

"Now, listen, as long as you can walk and feed yourself and are free from intense pain, you ought to be the happiest person in the world. No matter what happens, never forget that as long as you live! Never! Never!"

I was determined to do everything in my power to cultivate an unconscious and continuous attitude of gratefulness for my many blessings. Every morning when I awoke, I would thank God that conditions were no worse than they were; and I resolved that in spite of my troubles I would be the happiest person in Warrenton, Missouri. Maybe I didn't succeed in achieving that goal, but I did succeed in making myself the most grateful young woman in my town-and probably few of my associates worried less than I did.

"Mr. Shipp," he said, leaning back and offering me a cigarette, "we have been through these exhaustive tests. They were absolutely necessary, although I knew of course after my first quick examination that you did not have stomach ulcers.
"But I knew, because you are the kind of man you are and because you do the kind of work you do, that you would not believe me unless I showed you. Let me show you."
So he showed me the charts and the X-rays and explained them. He showed me I had no ulcers.

"Now," said the doctor, "this costs you a good deal of money, but it is worth it to you. Here is the prescription: don't worry.
"Now"-he stopped me as I started to expostulate-;"now, I realise that you can't follow the prescription immediately, so I'll give you a crutch. Here are some pills. They contain belladonna. Take as many as you like. When you use these up, come back and I'll give you more. They won't hurt you. But they will always relax you.
"But remember: you don't need them. All you have to do is quit worrying.
"If you do start worrying again, you'll have to come back here and I'll charge you a heavy fee again. How about it?"
I wish I could report that the lesson took effect that day and that I quit worrying immediately. I didn't. I took the pills for several weeks, whenever I felt a worry coming on. They worked. I felt better at once.

Look at Eisenhower, General Marshall, MacArthur, Jimmy Doolittle and Admiral King-they are running the war without taking pills. And yet you can't serve as chairman of the War Activities Committee of the Screen Publicists Guild without taking little white pills to keep your stomach from twisting and turning like a Kansas whirlwind."

I began to take pride in getting along without the pills. A little while later, I threw the pills down the drain and got home each night in time to take a little nap before dinner and gradually began to lead a normal life. I have never been back to see that physician.

But I owe him much, much more than what seemed like a stiff fee at the time. He taught me to laugh at myself. But I think the really skillful thing he did was to refrain from laughing at me, and to refrain from telling me I had nothing to worry about. He took me seriously. He saved my face. He gave me an out in a small box. But he knew then, as well as I know now, that the cure wasn't in those silly little pills-the cure was in a change in my mental attitude

Why don't you crumple up your worries about yesterday's problems and toss them into the wastebasket?" That one idea gave me immediate inspiration-gave me the feeling of a weight being lifted from my shoulders. From that day to this, I have made it a rule to throw into the wastebasket all the problems that I can no longer do anything about.

Then, one day while wiping the dishes as my wife washed them, I got another idea. My wife was singing as she washed the dishes, and I said to myself: "Look, Bill, how happy your wife is. We have been married eighteen years, and she has been washing dishes all that time. Suppose when we got married she had looked ahead and seen all the dishes she would have to wash during those eighteen years that stretched ahead. That pile of dirty dishes would be bigger than a barn. The very thought of it would have appalled any woman."
Then I said to myself: "The reason my wife doesn't mind washing the dishes is because she washes only one day's dishes at a time." I saw what my trouble was. I was trying to wash today's dishes, yesterday's dishes and dishes that weren't even dirty yet.

Worries don't bother me any more now. No more stomach pains. No more insomnia. I now crumple up yesterday's anxieties and toss them into the wastebasket, and I have ceased trying to wash tomorrow's dirty dishes today.

Do you remember a statement quoted earlier in this book? "The load of tomorrow, added to that of yesterday, carried today, makes the strongest falter." ... Why even try it?

The point I am trying to make is this: when I had nothing to do but lie on the flat of my back and worry about my future, I made no improvement whatever. I was poisoning my body with worry. Even the broken ribs couldn't heal. But as soon as I got my mind off myself by playing contract bridge, painting oil pictures, and carving wood, the doctors declared I made "an amazing improvement".

Remember what George Bernard Shaw said? "The secret of being miserable is to have the leisure to bother about whether you are happy or not." Keep active, keep busy!

"Well," Bill said, "I'll tell you a little secret. Next time you've really got something to worry about, take a pencil and a piece of paper, and sit down and write out in detail just what's worrying you. Then put that piece of paper in the lower right-hand drawer of your desk. Wait a couple of weeks, and then look at it. If what you wrote down still worries you when you read it, put that piece of paper back in your lower right-hand drawer. Let it sit there for another two weeks. It will be safe there. Nothing will happen to it. But in the meantime, a lot may happen to the problem that is worrying you. I have found that, if only I have patience, the worry that is trying to harass me will often collapse like a pricked balloon."

I saw the stunned grief on the faces of my family. I knew my number was up. Later, I found out that the doctor had prepared my wife for the fact that I would probably be dead in less than thirty minutes. My heart was so weak I was warned not to try to speak or to move even a finger.

I had never been a saint, but I had learned one thing-not to argue with God. So I closed my eyes and said: "Thy will be done. ... If it has to come now, Thy will be done."

As soon as I gave in to that thought, I seemed to relax all over. My terror disappeared, and I asked myself quickly what was the worst that could happen now. Well, the worst seemed to be a possible return of the spasms, with excruciating pains- then all would be over. I would go to meet my Maker and soon be at peace.

I lay on that settee and waited for an hour, but the pains didn't return. Finally, I began to ask myself what I would do with my life if I didn't die now. I determined that I would exert every effort to regain my health. I would stop abusing myself with tension and worry and rebuild my strength.

That was four years ago. I have rebuilt my strength to such a degree that even my doctor is amazed at the improvement my cardiograms show. I no longer worry. I have a new zest for life. But I can honestly say that if I hadn't faced the worst- my imminent death-and then tried to improve upon it, I don't believe I would be here today. If I hadn't accepted the worst, I believe I would have died from my own fear and panic.
Mr. Ryan is alive today because he made use of the principle described in the Magic Formula-FACE THE WORST THAT CAN HAPPEN.

First: I am too busy to indulge in self-destroying anxiety. I have three main activities-each one of which should be virtually a full-time job in itself. I lecture to large groups at Columbia University: I am also chairman of the Board of Higher Education of New York City. I also have charge of the Economic and Social Book Department of the publishing firm of Harper and Brothers. The insistent demands of these three tasks leave me no time to fret and stew and run around in circles.

Second: I am a great dismisser. When I turn from one task to another, I dismiss all thoughts of the problems I had been thinking about previously. I find it stimulating and refreshing to turn from one activity to another. It rests me. It clears my mind.

Third: I have had to school myself to dismiss all these problems from my mind when I close my office desk. They are always continuing. Each one always has a set of unsolved problems demanding my attention. If I carried these issues home with me each night, and worried about them, I would destroy my health; and, in addition, I would destroy all ability to cope with them.

I have had plenty of reason to worry. I am the only baseball manager who ever finished in last place for seven consecutive years. I am the only manager who ever lost eight hundred games in eight years. After a series of defeats, I used to worry until I could hardly eat or sleep. But I stopped worrying twenty-five years ago, and I honestly believe that if I hadn't stopped worrying then, I would have been in my grave long ago.

1. I saw how futile it was. I saw it was getting me nowhere and was threatening to wreck my career.
2. I saw it was going to ruin my health.
3. I kept myself so busy planning and working to win games in the future that I had no time to worry over games that were already lost.
4. I finally made it a rule never to call a player's attention to his mistakes until twenty-four hours after the game. In my early days, I used to dress and undress with the players. If the team had lost, I found it impossible to refrain from criticizing the players and from arguing with them bitterly over their defeats. I found this only increased my worries. Criticizing a player in front of the others didn't make him want to co-operate. It really made him bitter. So, since I couldn't be sure of controlling myself and my tongue immediately after a defeat, I made it a rule never to see the players right after a defeat. I wouldn't discuss the defeat with them until the next day. By that time, I had cooled off,the mistakes didn't loom so large, and I could talk things over calmly and the men wouldn't get angry and try to defend themselves.
5. I tried to inspire players by building them up with praise instead of tearing them down with faultfinding. I tried to have a good word for everybody.
6. I found that I worried more when I was tired; so I spend ten hours in bed every night, and I take a nap every afternoon. Even a five-minute nap helps a lot.
7. I believe I have avoided worries and lengthened my life by continuing to be active. I am eighty-five, but I am not going to retire until I begin telling the same stories over and over. When I start doing that, I'll know then that I am growing old.
Connie Mack never read a book on HOW TO STOP WORRYING so he made out his own roles. Why don't YOU make a list of the rules you have found helpful in the past-and write them out here?


I Discovered years ago that I could not escape my worries by trying to ran away from them, but that I could banish them by changing my mental attitude toward them. I discovered that my worries were not outside but inside myself.
As the years have gone by, I have found that time automatically takes care of most of my worries. In fact, I frequently find it difficult to remember what I was worrying about a week ago. So I have a rule: never to fret over a problem until it is at least a week old.Of course, I can't always put a problem completely out of mind for a week at a time, but I can refuse to allow it to dominate my mind until the allotted seven days have passed, either the problem has solved itself or I have so changed my mental attitude that it no longer has the power to trouble me greatly.

I owe whatever success I have had to the power of settling down to the day's work and trying to do it well to the best of my ability and letting the future take care of itself.

As the members of the club passed through the door, the parrot repeated over and over the only words he knew: "One at a time, gentlemen, one at a time." Father taught me to handle my troubles that way: "One at a time, gentlemen, one at a time." I have found that taking my troubles one at a time has helped me to maintain calm and composure amidst pressing duties and unending engagements. "One at a time, gentlemen, one at a time."

My mind started spinning. Something was trying to make sense to me. I was experiencing a miracle. Suddenly it dawned on me. The engineer had given me the answer I had been seeking. He was starting out on that long journey with only one green light to go by. If I had been in his place, I would want to see all the green lights for the entire journey. Impossible, of course, yet that was exactly what I was trying to do with my life-sitting in the station, going no place, because I was trying too hard to see what was ahead for me.

During those two years, over seven hundred green lights have shown for me, and the trip through life is so much easier without the worry of what colour the next light will be. No matter what colour it may be, I will know what to do.

Yet at only fifty-three-when most men are at their prime- his shoulders drooped and he shambled when he walked. "When he looked in a glass," says John T. Flynn, another of his biographers, "he saw an old man. The ceaseless work, the endless worry, the streams of abuse, the sleepless nights, and the lack of exercise and rest" had exacted their toll; they had brought him to his knees. He was now the richest man in the world; yet he had to live on a diet that a pauper would have scorned. His income at the time was a million dollars a week- but two dollars a week would probably have paid for all the food he could eat. Acidulated milk and a few biscuits were all the doctors would allow him.

His skin had lost its color it looked like old parchment drawn tight across his bones. And nothing but medical care, the best money could buy, kept him from dying at the age of fifty-three.

How did it happen? Worry. Shock. High-pressure and high-tension living. He "drove" himself literally to the edge of the grave.

1. Avoid worry. Never worry about anything, under any kind of circumstances.
2. Relax, and take plenty of mild exercise in the open air.

Yes, it took a long time for John D. to conquer worry. He was "dying" at fifty-three-but he lived to ninety-eight!

I once read that Dr. John B. Watson, the distinguished psychologist, said: "Sex is admittedly the most important subject in life. It is admittedly the thing which causes the most shipwrecks in the happiness of men and women."

He told me to think of relaxing all the time-to think about it when I was working, driving, eating, and trying to go to sleep. He told me that I was committing slow suicide because I didn't know how to relax.
The result? Life is much more pleasant and enjoyable; and I'm completely free of nervous fatigue and nervous worry.


I shall never forget this lesson. ... If a situation seems insurmountable, face it! Start fighting! Don't give in!

I grew stronger and stronger and could wake up with the joy of well-being, the joy of planning for the new day ahead, the joy of living. And although days of depression did creep in occasionally after that, especially when I was tired, I would tell myself not to think or try to reason with myself on those days-and gradually they became fewer and fewer and finally disappeared.


My father called on me unexpectedly. Like a good doctor, he discovered both the trouble and the bottle, in a second. I confessed why I had to escape reality.
The dear old man then and there improvised a prescription. He explained to me that there can be no real escape in alcohol or sleeping pills-or in any drug. For any sorrow there is only one medicine, better and more reliable than all the drugs in the world: work!
How right my father was! Getting used to work might be hard. Sooner or later you succeed. It has, of course, the quality of all the narcotics. It becomes habit-forming. And once the habit is formed, sooner or later, it becomes impossible to break one's self of it. I have never been able to break myself of the habit for fifty years


I am now able to endure the battles of each passing day. I now realize that in the past, I was being driven half mad not by today's problems but by the bitterness and anxiety over something that had happened yesterday or that I feared might happen tomorrow.

But now, when I find myself starting to worry about anything, I immediately stop and start to apply some of the principles I learned from studying this book. If I am tempted to tense up over something that must be done today, I get busy and do it immediately and get it off my mind.



----------------- </worry_book>


Immediate reward sends dopamine to limbic targets in your brain. Delayed reward sends dopamine to the frontal cortical targets. If the part of the brain associated with delayed gratification is stimulated more often then you are likely to delay gratification.

Rat experiment: when rats where placed in isolation and drugs were offered they chose drugs because there was nothing else. When a rat park was constructed and they had other options (toys, friends, sexual partners) rats were much more likely to not take drugs. Drugs are unlikely to be taken when you have alternatives to meet your desires.


People want to be optimistic unfortunately there is a dark side to optimism, when things don't go your way 
you will feel too demoralized.
“Begin each day by telling yourself: Today I shall be meeting with interference, ingratitude, insolence, 
disloyalty, ill-will, and selfishness – all of them due to the offenders’ ignorance of what is good or evil. 
But for my part I have long perceived the nature of good and its nobility, the nature of evil and its 
meanness, and also the nature of the culprit himself, who is my brother (not in the physical sense, but as a 
fellow creature similarly endowed with reason and a share of the divine); therefore none of those things can 
injure me, for nobody can implicate me in what is degrading. Neither can I be angry with my brother or fall 
foul of him; for he and I were born to work together, like a man’s two hands, feet or eyelids, or the upper 
and lower rows of his teeth. To obstruct each other is against Nature’s law – and what is irritation or 
aversion but a form of obstruction.”



Some things are in our control and others not. Things in our control are opinion, pursuit, desire, aversion, 
and, in a word, whatever are our own actions. Things not in our control are body, property, reputation, 
command, and, in one word, whatever are not our actions. The things in our control are by nature free, 
unrestrained, unhindered; but those not in our control are weak, slavish, restrained, belonging to others. 
Remember, then, that if you suppose that things which are slavish by nature are also free, and that what 
belongs to others is your own, then you will be hindered. You will lament, you will be disturbed, and you 
will find fault both with gods and men. But if you suppose that only to be your own which is your own, and 
what belongs to others such as it really is, then no one will ever compel you or restrain you. Further, you 
will find fault with no one or accuse no one. You will do nothing against your will. No one will hurt you, 
you will have no enemies, and you not be harmed.”


Journaling
When the light has been removed and my wife has fallen silent, aware of this habit that's now mine, I examine my entire day and go back over what I've done and said, hiding nothing from myself, passing nothing by.


memento mori
“Let us prepare our minds as if we’d come to the very end of life. Let us postpone nothing. Let us balance life’s books each day. The one who puts the finishing touches on their life each day is never short of time.” —Seneca 

When viewed from above our lives are so insignificant. Even wars are minor events compared to the universe. Reminding ourselves of our smallness makes us humble. Makes us giggle at people triggered by stupid meaningless things.

amor fati (loving fate)
We worry about the future not going our way and this creates anxiety. Amor fati (loving fate), whatever happens as long as you embrace the outcome. Goals and ambitions are fine as long as you detach from the outcome. 
Say you are a musician and practice as hard as you can and write the best music you can, while remaining detached from the outcome. Your focus will shift from your conceptual(abstract idea in your mind) end goal somewhere in the future to the present moment, which enlightens you from worrying about undesirable accounts.


Anna Akana
1. How you talk to yourself can change your life. Self Talk
2. You can't make emotional appointments. Take a step back and reflect.
	Feelings are facts. Even if someone had good intentions said or done something to hurt you, you are allowed to feel hurt. It's important to give yourself the space and permission to feel whatever it is that you are feeling so that you can process it and move forward. You can't control your feelings your reaction is well within your control. When conflict inevitably happens instead of shoving feelings down and let things fester, take a step back reflect and then talk back to the person about how they made you feel.
3. Boundaries are actually a blessing. 
4. We are more hurt by our own expectations of other people than by their actions. 
  We didn't get that job because the boss changed his mind, our friend is not helping us in need as much as we helped him etc. .


We have a finite amount of willpower(sustained by our energy).
	The students that did the homework did not get clean socks. The ones that got clean socks did not do the homework.
You use the same stock of willpower for all tasks.
	For ex. a successful writer used to order food at home to not spend energy on prepping, cooking and cleaning after.


How to not get offended

Lucius Annaeus Seneca 
	Someone has made a joke about the baldness of my head, the weakness of my eyes, the thinness of my legs, the shortness of my stature: what insult is there in telling me that which everyone sees ? 

If someone offends you ask yourself if the thing you are feeling offended by is it true or nonsense. If it's truth, why be offended by the truth ? "What insult is there in telling me that which everyone sees ?"
If it's nonsense shouldn't we feel ashamed for the other person ?

Contemplate on your ego.
	Many think there is nothing more bitter than an insult; thus you will find slaves who prefer to be flogged to being slapped, and who think stripes and death more endurable than insulting words.
When we are insulted our ego is attacked. This is a story about how we tell ourselves how the world should be. That's why in different cultures people are insulted by different things.

When we are insulted we must ask questions. Is it about what happened in the past, is it because of our different ideology etc. .
It shows more character if we seek the root of our emotional reactions within ourselves instead of immediately finger point at the outside word. Our own faculty is our own responsibility and what other people think is none of our business. 


Vice 4 things:               			Virtue:
	foolishness								Wisdom
	injustice								Morality
	cowardice								Courage
	intemperance (excessive indulgence)		Moderation


Self-esteem does not exist.

As George Carlin (RIP) once said: "The Self-Esteem Movement began in 1970 and I’m happy to say it’s been a complete failure... because studies have repeatedly shown that having high self-esteem does not improve grades, does not increase career achievement, does not limit the use of alcohol, and certainly does not reduce the incidence of violence of any sort because as it turns out, extremely aggressive, violent people think very highly of themselves. Imagine that! Sociopaths have high self-esteem! Who would have thunk?”"


// Psychopaths
Bonding—Any bonding. To a friend, a husband or wife, to children, to pets, etc. We have our own version of love, and it involves no emotional connection of any kind.

Depression—Not even a little; we don’t feel it.

Anxiety—The same as depression.

Suicidal ideations—Psychopaths don’t kill themselves.

Fear—We can feel adrenaline, but not fear. A lot of people like to think that we can; I invite them to live in our heads so they can see how wrong they are.

Chemical love—Right back to bonding. That high most people chase—the “Woo hoo, I’m in love intoxication”—we don’t get that. Our love is very intentional. It is a conscious act. This means when we want to be around a person, we actually want to be around them. It also means that we don’t get frustrated that our feelings changed, meaning we aren’t on the chemical high any more and resent our partner for it.

Sadness—Nope.

Self-doubt—Failure is never a problem. It doesn’t bother us, we don’t fear it, and we never dwell on it; it simply isn’t there. We either accomplish something or we don’t. If we don’t, we go about it a different way. If it’s unobtainable, we move on.

Low self-esteem—I still can’t figure out the evolutionary reason for this one. We don’t think we’re amazing by default. Sure, some psychopaths do and have high narcissism traits, but as this is simply a trait of personality that everyone has on some level, some psychopaths, just like some neurotypicals, have it quite high. Narcissism as a trait is very different than diagnosable narcissistic personality disorder. This is something else we cannot have. Goes against the wiring. For the last time, there is no such thing as a psychopath with NPD. Every time I read that, it tells me that the person writing knows nothing about either condition.

Empathy—We have cognitive empathy, not emotional empathy. We have never had it. We didn’t feel it when we were young and lost it; it’s not hidden under the bed. We don’t have it.

Remorse—Yup, we don’t feel bad when we do things that hurt people. The reverse of this is that we don’t care about the many small trespasses that happen all the time that most people lose their minds over. We just aren’t bothered by pretty much anything on a normal realm. There are certainly things that will, but they are pretty specific and normally have to do with a violation of trust or loyalty. Remorse is not something we understand. We can cognitively see why something upset a person and can make apologies based on that, but it is because we can logically work it out, not because we feel any way about it.

Stress—Nope. Not even a little. We are incredibly adaptable. We just flow from one thing to the next. Circumstances changing doesn’t trip us up; we will adjust.


//
The word “psychopath,” like many words associated with mental and personality disorders, is used broadly, and often incorrectly — colloquially, we might call someone who lies a lot a psychopath, just as we might call someone who texts us more frequently than we want “crazy.” The word “psychopath” is also routinely used to describe serial killers, though not all serial/mass murderers have psychopathic personalities. And while “sociopath” is sometimes (mistakenly) used interchangeably with psychopath, only the latter is rigorously defined and clinically accepted, says Craig Neumann, a professor of Clinical Psychology at the University of North Texas whose singular research focus has been the psychopathic personality and its traits.

According to Neumann, the true definition of “psychopath” is actually pretty narrow: “Broadly speaking, psychopathy refers to a pathological personality style that is interpersonally deceptive, affectively cold, behaviorally reckless, and often overtly antisocial,” he writes. To qualify, he says, a person must possess traits pertaining to each of four “domains”: Interpersonal, Affective, Lifestyle, and Antisocial. The corresponding traits are as follows:

Interpersonal: They’re manipulative, deceitful, and/or narcissistic.
Affective: They lack remorse, are callous, and may take pleasure in hurting others.
Lifestyle: They’re impulsive, may use illegal substances, and may have disregard for the consequences of their actions.
Antisocial: They are physically aggressive and may have a history of or tendency toward criminal behavior.

Importantly, Neumann notes, psychopathy is a scale. “It’s not that you’re either a psychopath or not,” he says. “In the same way someone can have severe depression but it’s also possible for someone to have mild or moderate depression.” Neumann uses the example of professional poker players: they might be deceitful, and narcissistic, but they’re (probably) not psychopaths. Similarly, he takes issue with neuroscientist James Fallon’s calling himself a psychopath because his brain imaging profile matched that of psychopathic individuals.

“Just because the amygdala shows hypoactivation does not make you a psychopath,” says Neumann. “This is a characteristic that’s associated with psychopathy, but biology is not destiny. We believe that the syndrome, the personality disorder, is a coming together of these four major domains.” While certain people may possess a few, or even most of the psychopathic characteristics (like superficial charm, sexual promiscuity, and early behavioral problems, to name a few) listed on the Psychopathy Checklist (the PCL-R) — another tool used in the diagnostic process — unless they fulfill each of the four domains, Neumann doesn’t consider them truly psychopathic.

“The max score on the PCL-R is a 40, but to reach 30 is really going to be up there,” he says. (Most people score between a 1 and a 3, he adds.) “But the point I’m trying to make here is that even people who are 25, 26, they don’t quite reach the diagnostic threshold. Even people who are 16, 17, 18 on the PCL-R are nasty sons of bitches. Do they meet the diagnostic threshold of what we would call meeting a diagnosis of psychopathy? No.”

Get unlimited access to The Cut and everything else New York
LEARN MORE »
Neumann hasn’t met or spoken to the subject of the following interview, but he did offer some potential disclaimers when I described the nature of our conversation. “These people dissimulate, they lie quite regularly, so it’s a challenging interview to do,” he says. “And most individuals at very high levels of psychopathy are not going to submit to an interview.” He’s also insistent that psychopaths are inherently and evidently unpleasant to be around. “One of the essences of personality pathology is you usually feel it in your gut first. Would I get in a car with this person and drive across the United States? And if you say ‘Oh, hell no,’ that gives you a clue that there’s something off in terms of personality,” he says.

The woman I spoke to, who will remain anonymous, says she was diagnosed as a psychopath in her mid-20s, and the diagnostic process she describes appears to be in line with what Neumann says is required. That said, our conversation was under an hour, and I am not a psychologist. That conversation, which has been edited for length, is below.

When were you diagnosed as a psychopath?
From age 26 to 27. I went through the whole diagnostic process over several months. There were a certain number of doctors that were involved, and a lot of testing: neuropsych testing, personality testing, brain scans, a lot of different interviews and going through the history of my childhood. It wasn’t a quick snap diagnosis. It was something that was arrived at over a decent period of time.

What precipitated that decision to start looking into a diagnosis? 
Well, when I was younger I had some youthful indiscretions that I don’t go into. But I had gotten [an evaluation] as a teenager, and had no idea what the result of that was. But when I got a little older, it just — I’d always known my whole life I was quite different in how I trust people, how I thought about things, how I experience the world. I actually ended up contacting the same doctor who did the first workup. And he remembered me, which I thought was interesting. He said, “Well, let’s just start from scratch,” which I was actually interested in doing. I wanted to know: why is my experience so different? Why do I not comprehend the basic interactions that, for other people, it just seems to be natural for them?

I had no idea what it was going to evolve into. I didn’t know it was going to be months of testing. I think there were a few times where I was ready to not care anymore, but I kept with it for some reason. At the end of it, he was a very smart person. I think he’d probably known someone else that was on the psychopathy spectrum, so he wasn’t immediately judgmental. He didn’t automatically give me the rundown of criminals, or what a lot of people assume psychopathy to be. He was able to actually talk to me about it. Once he explained it to me, it was: oh! Oh, all right. That makes sense.

Let’s talk about what people get wrong about psychopaths, in your view. Especially now, when there’s this huge cultural true-crime obsession, I think we have this very particular understanding of what a psychopath means, and it’s almost universally someone who’s very violent.
It’s actually not an unreasonable thing — not because it’s true, but because of what they’re presented with. Most studies done on psychopaths are done [on men] in prison or in forensic hospitals, so everything you’re going to hear is going to come from a criminal. It’s always going to be painted against the backdrop of someone who has committed crimes. They’re only out for themselves, they don’t care about anyone else. If you interviewed any walk of people, and based their entire profile based on [the institutionalized] version of that person, like neurotypicals or autistic people, bipolar people, you get a very different picture than if you interviewed them in their general lives.

There is also this mistaken thinking that all serial killers are psychopaths, which is just not even remotely true. It’s just a myth that won’t die. There’s a phrase: “Not all psychopaths are serial killers, but all serial killers are psychopaths.” It’s just incorrect. But people hear this, and they associate [us with] serial killers. For some reason, people think we want to kill people. And I think that probably comes from the lack of empathy. People believe that if you have a lack of empathy, that automatically opens a floodgate of antisocial behavior. That’s not really how it works. I may not care, I may not have an emotional reaction to someone’s pain, but that doesn’t mean that I’m going out of my way to cause pain. It just means that I don’t have that emotional response.

In a day to day sense, or in your interpersonal relationships with people, is empathy or attempted empathy something you’ve had to teach yourself in order to relate to other people? How does that work?
Well, we have cognitive empathy. So if your mother died, I can look at you, I can see that you are in pain. I may not feel the same pain, but I can understand you feel pain, and that series of behaviors usually warrants a certain response: comfort or interaction, engagement. And so it’s a matter of honing that over time, and also making sure that I can continually consider that my reaction to things is not how other people experience things. Which is hard, because you sort of go through life with the assumption that everybody experiences it like you do.

Do you ever feel afraid?
We don’t feel fear. We get adrenal responses. When you have adrenaline responses to a car accident, or bungee jumping, or what have you, we’ll still get that, but for us, we don’t feel the fear, which can be obviously dangerous if you’re a little kid, and you don’t know you’re supposed to be afraid of stuff. We don’t process the emotion of fear. It doesn’t occur to us. And we can’t understand it, either. I mean, we get that you feel something, but we don’t get it.

How do you perceive it when you hear someone expressing their fear of mortality, or says they’re afraid to die someday? That always baffles me, because I can’t comprehend why it matters. For me, life is very much in this immediate moment. This moment is all you have, and the fear of it going away is just nonsensical. This is a huge disconnect for me. People explain it in ways that they very much understand: they’re afraid of dying, they’re afraid of not being important, they’re afraid of being forgotten. And none of those things are important to me, so it’s sort of like saying I’m afraid of not being the color blue.

In your romantic relationship, does that present a challenge as far as talking about values, or knowing what to do when someone wants sympathy from you? 
Certainly. I’ve been with my partner for 19 years, and he’s been with me through the whole diagnostic process, and it’s definitely been a learning curve. He’s probably one of the most patient people you will ever meet on the planet. He reads people and he understands people on a level I simply don’t. Through learning from him, I actually can apply that back to him, and understand what his needs are. It’s always a conscious effort. I know that for a lot of people, their significant other is more important to them than themselves. They think of them first, that sort of thing. That will never be natural for me. I always have to make sure I am manually considering him. There are certainly things that I miss, and it requires me to have to do bimonthly maintenance. Am I hitting all the marks for you? Do I need to do anything differently? Where am I not fulfilling what you need? And usually he’s like “eh, it’s fine.”

To be honest, that sounds like a wise practice for most people. I think a lot of people take it for granted that the other person knows where they’re at.
I agree with you. I call it cognitive love. And it’s investment. You have to make that investment, you have to make the time, you have to take the other person into consideration all the time. It’s important. His needs are on the same level as mine — which, if you knew me, you would know that that’s very, very rare.

When you say cognitive love, does that mean you don’t feel that sort of romantic roller coaster feeling that other people describe to you?
Well, no, I don’t. Certainly attraction. I feel attraction, and he’s very attractive. But psychopaths don’t process oxytocin like neurotypicals do. What oxytocin contributes to in your brain is chemical love, so that feeling of a roller coaster. Bonding is another one we don’t have. You bond to your significant other, you bond to your children, you bond to your pets. There’s also trust, which is a weird one, because I didn’t know oxytocin had anything to do with trust. Most people feel trust as an actual emotion. I never knew that. To me, trust was always: You show me how you’re going to behave, and I will determine whether or not I want you around. I always knew I didn’t trust people, and I always had a disconnect, because I didn’t know it was a chemical reaction for most people. I didn’t have an explanation as to why I didn’t trust people, but then I started digging into oxytocin. It made sense.

A lot of people think of psychopaths as having a very flat emotional affect, and I know we haven’t talked for long, but that’s not my impression of you. You obviously have a personality, and a distinctive way of speaking, and so I wonder what your experience is with that perception. 
People think we have no emotion, which is absolutely not true. We just feel them way turned down. If most people feel an emotion between seven and eight on a dial of ten, I feel it between zero and two. Negative emotions are background noise. We can’t tune into that frequency because our brains just don’t process enough information for them to ever be loud enough to feel or direct behavior. We enjoy things, get excited about things, like adrenaline — that’s great. I laugh with people, I enjoy intellectual discussions. A lower functioning psychopath probably wouldn’t enjoy intellectual conversation. They’d rather go and rob a liquor store. But that’s why they spend most of their lives in prison.

Do you feel at all that your psychopathy is an advantage to you? Do you feel lucky in any sense? 
No. It’s not an advantage, because all neurotypes come with limitations, don’t they? With psychopathy I constantly have to figure out people, and why they do what they do, and how to respond to them. Normal people have to deal with grief and loss and pain and heartbreak, but they also have things to make them happy. I think people are pretty wired the way they’re meant to be. I don’t know that it’s necessarily an advantage or disadvantage, it’s just what you make of it. I could easily take psychopathy and make it a terribly negative thing for both me and the world, because I could make bad choices, and do terrible things. I could do that, but that’s not who I have any interest in being. Anyone can make bad choices for themselves.

Do you still see the doctor who diagnosed you, or do you sort of have any regular treatment that you do?
It’s completely self managed at this point. There’s really nothing to manage. I learn about it by reading studies. I haven’t spoken to [that doctor] since back when I got the diagnosis. It was pretty much, “Thank you very much,” and that was the end of that. We never spoke again.

And you don’t take any medication for it, right?
No. It’s just a variant brain structure. And actually we respond very differently to medications as well, because our chemistry is different, so you can expect strange medication reactions. I’ve been dealing with that. Whenever a doctor prescribes the medication, I can pretty well expect it to not work as intended.

Does that apply to something as innocuous as a cold medication? 
Yeah. Sometimes cold medicines work for things like decongestants, but things like pain medication, I’ve never experienced the high that other people get. I have no comprehension of why people enjoy opioids. We also can’t get addicted to things because of the way our brain works. There are psychopaths that use drugs, but you can cut them off cold turkey and they will not have any withdrawal. They don’t have any cravings, and they can just go on with their day like it was nothing. That’s another weird chemical processing. So we just lack certain normal cues that other people have.

Online you’re very out as far as being a psychopath but is it something that a lot of people in your personal life know? Or your family?
No. They have no idea, and I’m going to keep it that way.

Do you have a relationship with your parents?
Yeah. They’re great people. They don’t know. They had a really difficult child to raise in me, and I’ve gotten older, and to them, I’ve matured into the daughter that they always wanted. I don’t really see a need to change their perceptions of things. They know me for what they need to know me for. Trying to explain psychopathy to people, especially older people, is really difficult.

With a lot of diagnoses I think the assumption would be that the more information your parents or your family or whoever has, the better they will be able to understand you, but obviously you don’t feel that way. 
Well, sure, but then you’d have to have them dive into neurology, biology, understanding the wiring of the brain. And the word has so much negative stigma. Most of the time when you say “psychopath,” people immediately have a very specific reaction, and they shut down. They have absolutely no interest in hearing past evil, dangerous, killer, malicious, out to get you. The things people assume about psychopathy are crazy. Trying to explain that to someone when you’re their daughter, and they think of you as someone they know, they love, they trust, that’s going to upset their entire perception. And you may never get it back. It’s a huge risk and not one I really have any interest in taking.

When you meet new people, whether professionally or personally or whatever context, do you present them with the version of yourself that fits the situation? 
Absolutely. Why tell them anything that they don’t need to know? They just need to know what they can expect of me.

Do you think it’s something that people suspect about you? Or do you think people’s perceptions are so off that they wouldn’t really know what psychopathy looks like? 
No. Psychopaths use what we call a ‘mask.’ It’s basically an entire affectation of being like everyone else. We learn at a really young age that if we respond to things the way that we naturally respond to things, people don’t like that. So you just learn how to affect the behavior and how to appear like everyone else, and that’s just what you have to do.

There’s a very different version of me that goes out of the house and interacts with the world from the person who’s home with people who know how I actually am. And even with the people who do know me, and do know how I actually am, there still has to be a mask. If somebody’s spending time with me in a room, I won’t give them the impression that they’re welcome. They might say something to me, and I’ll answer them back, but I’m not going to look at them, there’s no feeling of being welcome. But to me, unless I tell you to leave, you’re completely welcome.

I have a friend who will feel like I resent her spending time with me. She’ll be like, “I’m bothering you.” You’re not bothering me. Why do you think you’re bothering me? She’s like, “Well, I just get the impression you don’t want me here.” Did I tell you to leave? “No, but are we okay?” We’re fine! You’re fine. I have to make that connection. So if I don’t do that, people feel like there’s something profoundly lacking, and they feel uncomfortable. It’s very disquieting to them.

Does that friend know what your diagnosis is? 
Yes, she knows, and she tries very hard. She makes adjustments for me, I make adjustments for her. That’s the sort of mutual investment in the friendship.

I think most people are so used to feeling like they have to be people pleasers, and that everyone else should be that for them, I can imagine why it would be unsettling to be around someone who, while they’re maybe not doing you any harm, they’re not going out of their way to practice those social pleasantries, either.
Exactly. And if I was completely mask off, and something tragic happened to them, if she was lost a parental figure and came to tell me about it, I would just look at her with a flat look of, “Okay.” It wouldn’t be “Are you okay? What can I do for you?” It would just be, “Alright.” And that’s not a good response to have when someone’s having a grieving process. You have to engage. I learned very early on that there are responses that are required for people to not be very uncomfortable.

Is that something that gets easier with time, or is it something you’re always working on? 
No. It’s always, always, always a pain in the butt.

You’ve said you get a lot of death threats online when you post about your experiences as a psychopathic in forums. Why do you think some people respond that way to you? Do you have any idea? 
I think it comes from a visceral fear of the unknown, or fear of evil. Hollywood has desperately pushed this narrative of psychopathy. And when you’re taking away the villain, which is really what psychopaths are in movies, people get very upset about it. I don’t know if you’ve seen sites like Love Fraud or Psychopath Free, on and on and on, but there are all these sites where people go when they’re convinced their ex is a psychopath, when really their ex was just a toxic, awful person. There are millions of those, and they’re everywhere, and they come from every neurotype.

Is there anything that you feel that I left out, that you would like to add?
It’s a lot more complex than people realize. I think it’s important to hold people responsible for their actions, not brain formation. People make choices. Psychopathy is not an excuse, and it’s definitely not a reason why someone does bad things. People do bad things because they make bad choices. So instead of looking at psychopathy as this constellation of things that represent evil, just look at it as a different way of experiencing the world, and what a person chooses to do with that is on that person. 


// Unwanted favors
It is understandable when you turn down requests of favors from friends and acquaintances. Almost all of us have at some point had to say no to a friend who incessantly asks for "small" favors.

However, what if you are at the receiving end of an unwanted favor? What if there's a colleague who keeps offering to drive you home or do a task for you and you can't say no?

Bear in mind, these offers come even when you are perfectly capable to do the task yourself.

People who tend to offer unwanted favors make you feel patronized, invade your privacy and fundamentally disrespect boundaries. They are also manipulative in nature. 

The worst part is you realize very late that there is an unwritten code you unwittingly signed up for and now you might need to reciprocate the favor. The favor asked of you is often too huge and unfair on you.

To avoid falling in this pit, learn to say no to favors unless you absolutely, definitely, and undoubtedly need it. In 1964, The Gazette ran an interesting editorial on Unwanted Favors. Here are a few real examples of how the people of 1964 said no to unwanted favors. Also, there are takeaways for you.

Carl Sandburg, reputed Chicago Daily News writer, was scouring the library for information for his latest biography. The librarian, a closet writer herself, didn't recognize Sandburg and offered to help him out and make his writing 'readable'. Sandburg chose the easy way out, he started avoiding the librarian on his next library visits.

1. Create a distance between "them" and "you"
Avoid overly helpful and patronizing friends and colleagues by putting as much distance between them and you as possible.

If they are persistent, tell them clearly that you are not comfortable with their generous offers of help or better yet, tell them you are more competent than they think you are.

2. Don't give an excuse 
"Thank you, I would take it but..."

This makes the person feel that you need the favor but are hesitant and so they will go all out in persuading you to accept their favor.

Simply say, "No thanks, I can manage."

When the Duke of Wellington was ill, an unknown person sent him a box of remedies. The Duke wrote, "I have received your letter and the boxes of salves etc... This will be returned to you in the coach on Monday .. I cannot make use of Salves sent me by a Gentleman however respectable of who I know nothing...:

3. Draw a line at unwanted gifts or 'tangible' favors
Patronizing people are also magnanimous at times. Traditionally, gifts are ways of showing appreciation, interest or gratefulness.

But off-late, giving gifts is considered ego-centric as scientists and behavioral psychologists are finding that people like giving gifts more than receiving them. Make sure you don't accept them unless you want to be caught in a vicious cycle.

Learn how to tactfully stem out these issues early on, or you could end up like this person.


// The pleasure trap:
    Faze 1: medium pleasure whole plant based foods
    Faze 2: junk food, we get high pleasure(We trick the brain with high calorie food, this is the best food)
    Faze 3: junk food, we get used to it, the brain starts to reset, our senses will get dull we eventually get the same pleasure as we did with plant foods
    Faze 4: we try plant food we don't like it, we get low pleasure for a couple of days or weeks
    Faze 5: we eventually get where we started, medium pleasure from plant based food


// Social Disapproval
We used to live in small groups, villages. When we found something useful we liked to share it. For example if we found how to make fire with flint and we share 9 out 10 will like that. This actions will raise our status, but one person will be angry and envious about why it wasn't them in your place.
When you are on a plant based diet, and you are asked where do you get your protein, you are challenged. You are now in a situation where if you defend your position you fight for status. You don't want to lose status, the other person doesn't want to lose status, negative feelings are involved, logic may not apply. 
You say I'm trying an experiment I'm seeing how this goes and when the question with the protein shows up, you say I don't know, I'm not really sure. That sends a signal that we are the sage and they the idiot.
It sends a signal that we are Bubbling Mr. McGoo. We are probably just experimenting with a fad and burn out in 90 days, they don't have to worry about their status. If they push us and say you can't do that it's unhealthy, well I checked with my doctor and my doctor says it's gonna be okay, we just kicked the can down the road. Most of the interest comes from the idea that we might raise our status in the village when they realize we don't challenge the they lose interest.


//
If you don't go after what you want, you'll never have it. If you don't ask, the answer is always no. If you don't step forward, you're always in the same place.


// Feynman technique, retain difficult concepts

1. Write down the concept that you aim to retain
2. Explain the concept using simple language
3. Look up concepts/areas that you are having trouble explaining in a simple manner, reference problem areas from textbook/notes
4. Identify complex areas and challenge yourself to simplify them further. Aim to be able to explain it to a child.


// Love the Process | DON'T Follow Your Passion

Interests, strengths and market three circles that overlap, how much they overlap depends.
If your passion is playing games and it becomes your job, video games will lose their magic. Now you worry about your performance, monetization etc. 
Your passions are fickle. Passion is not what gets results, self-discipline, work ethic, focus are the ones that get results. 
If your job drains you of life, try to change it. There are going to be pros and cons with every job.

Love the process
	If I lose 10 pounds I will be slim, if I have 1 million $ I will be happy, if I get into medical school 
I will be successful. Reframe events to processes, commit to the process, try to make a way to love the process of achieving your goal and practice the process. 
	Living life for the end goal teaches us that we are not there, it makes us unhappy, feel like a failure. 
	Because the happiness lies with the end goal and not the process. 
	
	Practicing the process is not always glamorous, but it will get you where you need to be. 
	** Find joy in the small victories of progress. Don't stress about the final destination.

- Start with baby steps and build over time
- Track your progress and be proud of your improvement
- Don't fret that you're not at your final destination yet
- Don't chase after passion. Find passion in whatever you do.


// Nietzsche
To live is to suffer to survive is to find some meaning in the suffering.
The individual has always had to struggle to keep from being overwhelmed by the tribe. If you try it, you will be lonely often, and sometimes frightened. But no price is too high to pay for the privilege of owning yourself.

The higher we soar the smaller we appear to those who cannot fly.
A thinker sees his own action as experiments and questions as attempts to find out something. Success and failure are for him answers above all.

Sometimes people don't want to hear the truth because they don't want their illusions destroyed.
I assess the power of a will by how much resistance, pain, torture it endures and knows how to turn to its advantage.


// Feel Like Giving Up? Use The Cookie Jar Method by David Goggins

When you are doing something hard and want to give up think about your past successes/achievements. They will fuel you.

Make a list with your achievement and when you feel down read it or think about it. 

// Master Shi Heng Yi 5 hindrances to self-mastery 
  Discipline is everything, it's the one thing that will help you get up and continue.
  Nothing comes from nothing. You have to plant the seed so it is able to grow.

  Our lives are too unique to follow to copy the path of someone else.

5 hindrances

1 Sensual desire(desires of the senses)
	On the journey up the mountain you may encounter a restaurant, you may eat and decide this is enough.

2 Ill will / aversion
	Aversion to situations, people etc..

	You are climbing the mountain and it starts to rain, you don't like it. The roads are bumpy you don't 
		like, you might  have to cross the river but you don't like to swim you don't like, etc..

	You journey will not be pleasant unless you let go of this ill will.

3 Dullness, sloth the heaviness of the body, torpor the dullness of the mind
	Sleepiness, non-motivation, lack of energy, depression. You are in a cell, in prison you must find a way to get out.

4 Restlessness
	Unsettled mind, worry about future or traveling in the past rejecting, judging about an event that already happened. Monkey mind constantly jumping from branch to branch unable to stay in the moment.
	There is no time to see clearly.

5 Skeptical doubt
	State of mind based on indecisiveness, very easy in this state of mind to get lost in thoughts. Can I do this, is this the right path, what of this, what of that. The mind will have a hard time to synchronize with your actions. You will get disconnected from your goals and aspirations. Too many doubts you will stop more often than moving on.

	This reminds me of that computer technique were instead of running the algorithm to give a certain priority to a task you simply do them as they come. Instead of finding the complexity of the task assigning a priority and organizing them, the time and resources are better spent on simply doing the task.

You need to plan and organize you life to prevent those hindrance from arising or if prevention is not possible you need to have techniques to deal with them. These hindrances put a dark cloud on your mind, or on your mountain. Just let it rain.

Steps to deal with them:
1 Recognize in what state of the mind you are.

2 Accept
	Learn to accept and allow the situation to be the way it is, allow a person to be the way how they are.

3 Investigate your emotional and mental state and ask questions, why did it come up, what are the consequences for remaining in that state.

4 Non-identification 
	is the practice I am not the body, I am not the mind, I am not the emotion, it's just that I can see all these 3 things about me. Our lives are too unique to follow to copy the path of someone else.

To bring meaning, value to your life you must learn to master yourself and don't let the hindrances take over.


// EGO IS THE ENEMY by Ryan Holiday
  	Unhealthy belief in our own importance.

	Concern => obsession
	Confidence => arrogance

	"The disease of me."

  	1. Ego shows up when you are aspiring to do something. Asking what are people thinking of me. It prefers talking about what you are going to do than doing. 

	  	Emily Gould, successful writer: "I tumbled, I tweeted, and I scrolled. This didn't earn me any money but it felt like work.". For an entire year she made no progress, as her ego was concerned about what her followers might think.

	2. After succeeding our ego tells us that all our future endeavors are going to be successful.

		At 18 Howard Hughes made a bold decision to buy out his relative from their oil drill bit business, it was a success, from 1 million company it grew to a billion dollar company.

		Over his career he would create dishonest and wasteful businesses, until he ended up naked on a chair working around the clock to battle lawyers, investigators, investors to keep his crumbling empire.

		His early success was his demise.

	3.	When you fail, ego shows up to save face and dodge responsibility. You can't blame me! It's not my fault. In an effort to defend our ego we lose sight of what we worked for and erode the progress we made till this point.


		The story of the American Apparel founder Dov Charney. After loses of 300 million dollars, numerous scandals, the company offered him a position  of creative consultant or be fired. He rejected and instead of helping the company he declared war and sued. He ended up with no money on a friends couch.

	How do we defeat the ego.
		One way is to use the +-= (plus, minus, equal) method.
		
		Frank Shamrok: For each fighter to be great. 
			They need to have someone better
			they can learn from, someone lesser
			they can teach, and someone equal
			they can challenge themselves against.


	Aspiring
	1. When we aspire to do something great we need an equal to defeat ego. We need an equal to compete to constantly improve, if we worry about almost useless stuff like what are people thinking we will fall behind.

	Succeeding
	2. When we succeed we need a plus, we need a dose of humility. There is always someone better than us, there is always someone bigger than us, ex: a mentor who achieved much more, reflect on how small we really are. We do this to quiet the ego. Avoiding being caught up in our story of greatness, taking on too much and be careless with our time and resources.

	Failing
	3. We need a minus, to look objectively at our failures and gather the lessons learned to pass down.
	When you have the responsibility to teach others, you spend less time complaining and more time to improve. To find your minus Become a mentor, teach your kids, write a blog to share your lessons.


// Unearned moral superiority for ex:
Students at Yale that were 1% of 1% of the population they wanted the advantages of being privileged plus the moral superiority of being a victim, but they weren't victims.

// POOR CHARLIE’S ALMANACK
In tennis for example the one that wins is the one that makes the less mistakes, playing safe and constantly avoid being stupid.

When you need to invest to make money or chose a job start with the don'ts:
For example you are not good at, or you don't have confidence in banks, companies outside your country, non-profit organizations, insurance company. So you can figure out you circle of competence.

Learn from your own mistakes, but also learn from others mistakes, you don't have to walk on every mine by yourself.

Study history, learn from the ones that succeeded and the ones that failed.

Investing checklist:

1. Risk
	Use a margin of safety.
	More risk additional compensation. 
	Avoid big mistakes.

2. Independence
	Think for yourself.
	The correctness of your analysis does not depend on other peoples opinions.
		People agreeing with you does not necessarily make your analysis correct nor them disagreeing with you makes it wrong.
	Mimicking the herd will give you the results of the herd.


3. Intellectual humility, acknowledge what you don't know, that's were you should begin

	Stay within your circle of competence
	Identify and think through evidence that goes against your own view
	Never fool yourself, no one is as good as you are.

4. Proper allocation of capital

	There's always an opportunity cost
	Good ideas are rare, when the odds are in your favor bet heavily
	Don't fall in love with an investment, stay skeptic


5. Patience, resit the urge to act

	"Compound interest is the eight wonder of the world" // Einstein
	*** The process is where you live so remember to enjoy it.
	Guard against hubris and boredom

6. Decisiveness, when proper circumstance present themselves act with decisiveness

	Be fearful when other are greedy, and greedy when others are fearful
	Opportunity does not come often, so seize it when it does.
	Stay prepared, so you can identify opportunities

// 12 rules for life, Jordan Peterson

1 Tell the truth
2 Do not do things that you hate. Which is a variant of telling the truth, because you have to act out the truth as well as telling it.
3 Act so you can tell the truth about how you act.
4 Pursue what is meaningful not expedient.
5 If you have to chose, be the one who does things, instead of the one who is seen to do things.
6 Pay attention
7 Assume that the person you are listening to might know something you need to know. Listen to them so that they will share it with you.
8 Plan and work diligently to maintain the romance in your relationships.
9 Be careful who you share good news with.
10 Be careful who you share bad news with
11 Make at least one thing better every single place you go.
12 Imagine who you cold be, and then aim single-mindedly at that.
13 Do not allow yourself to become arrogant or resentful.
14 Try to make a room in your house as beautiful as possible.
15 Compare yourself to who you were yesterday, not to who someone else is today.
16 Work as hard as you possibly can on at least one thing.
17 If old memory make you cry, write them down carefully and completely.
18 Maintain you connections with people.
19 Do not carelessly denigrate social institutions or artistic achievement.
20 Treat yourself as if you are someone responsible for helping.
21 Ask someone to do you a small favor so that he or she can ask you to do one in the future.
22 Make friend with people who want the best for you.
23 Do not try to rescue someone who does not want to be rescued.
24 Be very careful about rescuing someone who does.
25 Nothing well done is insignificant.
26 Set your house in perfect order before you criticize the world.
27 Dress like the person you want to be.
28 Be precise in your speech.
29 Stand up straight with your shoulders back.
30 Don't avoid something frightening if it stands in your way.
31 Don't do unnecessarily dangerous things.
32 Do not let your children do anything that makes you dislike them.
33 Do not transform your wife into a maid or a man into your slave, driver, handyman, psychologist, emotional punching bag.
34 Do not hide unwanted thing in the fog.
35 Notice that opportunity lurks where responsibility has been abdicated.
36 Read something written by someone great.
37 Pet a cat when you encounter one on the street.
38 Don't bother children when they are skateboarding.
39 Don't let bullies get away with it.
40 Write a letter to the government if you see something that needs fixing and propose a solution.

After all, God didn’t give Moses “The Ten Suggestions,” he gave Commandments; and if I’m a free agent, my first reaction to a command might just be that nobody, not even God, tells me what to do, even if it’s good for me. 
But the story of the golden calf also reminds us that without rules we quickly become slaves to our passions and there’s nothing freeing about that.

And the story suggests something more: unchaperoned, and left to our own untutored judgment, we are quick to aim low and worship qualities that are beneath us—in this case, an artificial animal that brings out our own animal instincts in a completely unregulated way. 

One neat thing about the Bible story is that it doesn’t simply list its rules, as lawyers or legislators or administrators might; it embeds them in a dramatic tale that illustrates why we need them, thereby making them easier to understand.

Honoré de Balzac, the novelist, once described the balls and parties in his native France, observing that what appeared to be a single party was always really two. In the first hours, the gathering was suffused with bored people posing and posturing, and attendees who came to meet perhaps one special person who would confirm them in their beauty and status. Then, only in the very late hours, after most of the guests had left, would the second party, the real party, begin. Here the conversation was shared by each person present, and open-hearted laughter replaced the starchy airs.


Not long after the Soviet Union fell, and most of the world breathed a sigh of relief, Peterson began purchasing this propaganda for a song online. Paintings lionizing the Soviet revolutionary spirit completely filled every single wall, the ceilings, even the bathrooms. The paintings were not there because Jordan had any totalitarian sympathies, but because he wanted to remind himself of something he knew he and everyone would rather forget: that hundreds of millions were murdered in the name of utopia.

It took getting used to, this semi-haunted house “decorated” by a delusion that had practically destroyed mankind. But it was eased by his wonderful and unique spouse, Tammy, who was all in, who embraced and encouraged this unusual need for expression! These paintings provided a visitor with the first window onto the full extent of Jordan’s concern about our human capacity for evil in the name of good, and the psychological mystery of self-deception (how can a person deceive himself and get away with it?)—an interest we share. 

And then there were also the hours we’d spend discussing what I might call a lesser problem (lesser because rarer), the human capacity for evil for the sake of evil, the joy some people take in destroying others, captured famously by the seventeenth-century English poet John Milton in Paradise Lost.


Maps of Meaning was sparked by Jordan’s agonized awareness, as a teenager growing up in the midst of the Cold War, that much of mankind seemed on the verge of blowing up the planet to defend their various identities. He felt he had to understand how it could be that people would sacrifice everything for an “identity,” whatever that was. And he felt he had to understand the ideologies that drove totalitarian regimes to a variant of that same behaviour: killing their own citizens. In Maps of Meaning, and again in this book, one of the matters he cautions readers to be most wary of is ideology, no matter who is peddling it or to what end.


Ideologies are simple ideas, disguised as science or philosophy, that purport to explain the complexity of the world and offer remedies that will perfect it. Ideologues are people who pretend they know how to “make the world a better place” before they’ve taken care of their own chaos within. (The warrior identity that their ideology gives them covers over that chaos.) That’s hubris, of course, and one of the most important themes of this book, is “set your house in order” first, and Jordan provides practical advice on how to do this.


Ideologies are substitutes for true knowledge, and ideologues are always dangerous when they come to power, because a simple-minded I-know-it-all approach is no match for the complexity of existence. Furthermore, when their social contraptions fail to fly, ideologues blame not themselves but all who see through the simplifications. Another great U of T professor, Lewis Feuer, in his book Ideology and the Ideologists, observed that ideologies retool the very religious stories they purport to have supplanted, but eliminate the narrative and psychological richness. Communism borrowed from the story of the Children of Israel in Egypt, with an enslaved class, rich persecutors, a leader, like Lenin, who goes abroad, lives among the enslavers, and then leads the enslaved to the promised land (the utopia; the dictatorship of the proletariat).

My grandfather, her husband, survived the Mauthausen concentration camp, but choked to death on the first piece of solid food he was given, just before liberation day.


Above all, he alerted his students to topics rarely discussed in university, such as the simple fact that all the ancients, from Buddha to the biblical authors, knew what every slightly worn-out adult knows, that life is suffering. If you are suffering, or someone close to you is, that’s sad. But alas, it’s not particularly special. We don’t suffer only because “politicians are dimwitted,” or “the system is corrupt,” or because you and I, like almost everyone else, can legitimately describe ourselves, in some way, as a victim of something or someone. It is because we are born human that we are guaranteed a good dose of suffering. And chances are, if you or someone you love is not suffering now, they will be within five years, unless you are freakishly lucky. Rearing kids is hard, work is hard, aging, sickness and death are hard, and Jordan emphasized that doing all that totally on your own, without the benefit of a loving relationship, or wisdom, or the psychological insights of the greatest psychologists, only makes it harder. He wasn’t scaring the students; in fact, they found this frank talk reassuring, because in the depths of their psyches, most of them knew what he said was true, even if there was never a forum to discuss it—perhaps because the adults in their lives had become so naively overprotective that they deluded themselves into thinking that not talking about suffering would in some way magically protect their children from it.

He taught them to respect many of the greatest books ever written. He gave vivid examples from clinical practice, was (appropriately) self-revealing, even of his own vulnerabilities, and made fascinating links between evolution, the brain and religious stories. In a world where students are taught to see evolution and religion as simply opposed (by thinkers like Richard Dawkins), Jordan showed his students how evolution, of all things, helps to explain the profound psychological appeal and wisdom of many ancient stories, from Gilgamesh to the life of the Buddha, Egyptian mythology and the Bible. He showed, for instance, how stories about journeying voluntarily into the unknown—the hero’s quest—mirror universal tasks for which the brain evolved. He respected the stories, was not reductionist, and never claimed to exhaust their wisdom. If he discussed a topic such as prejudice, or its emotional relatives fear and disgust, or the differences between the sexes on average, he was able to show how these traits evolved and why they survived.


Here he would relate the myth of the hero, a cross-cultural theme explored psychoanalytically by Otto Rank, who noted, following Freud, that hero myths are similar in many cultures, a theme that was picked up by Carl Jung, Joseph Campbell and Erich Neumann, among others. Where Freud made great contributions in explaining neuroses by, among other things, focusing on understanding what we might call a failed-hero story (that of Oedipus), Jordan focused on triumphant heroes. In all these triumph stories, the hero has to go into the unknown, into an unexplored territory, and deal with a new great challenge and take great risks. In the process, something of himself has to die, or be given up, so he can be reborn and meet the challenge. This requires courage, something rarely discussed in a psychology class or textbook.


But people have kept listening because what he is saying meets a deep and unarticulated need. And that is because alongside our wish to be free of rules, we all search for structure.


The hunger among many younger people for rules, or at least guidelines, is greater today for good reason. In the West at least, millennials are living through a unique historical situation. They are, I believe, the first generation to have been so thoroughly taught two seemingly contradictory ideas about morality, simultaneously—at their schools, colleges and universities, by many in my own generation. This contradiction has left them at times disoriented and uncertain, without guidance and, more tragically, deprived of riches they don’t even know exist.
The first idea or teaching is that morality is relative, at best a personal “value judgment.” Relative means that there is no absolute right or wrong in anything; instead, morality and the rules associated with it are just a matter of personal opinion or happenstance, “relative to” or “related to” a particular framework, such as one’s ethnicity, one’s upbringing, or the culture or historical moment one is born into. It’s nothing but an accident of birth. According to this argument (now a creed), history teaches that religions, tribes, nations and ethnic groups tend to disagree about fundamental matters, and always have. Today, the postmodernist left makes the additional claim that one group’s morality is nothing but its attempt to exercise power over another group. So, the decent thing to do—once it becomes apparent how arbitrary your, and your society’s, “moral values” are—is to show tolerance for people who think differently, and who come from different (diverse) backgrounds. That emphasis on tolerance is so paramount that for many people one of the worst character flaws a person can have is to be “judgmental.” And, since we don’t know right from wrong, or what is good, just about the most inappropriate thing an adult can do is give a young person advice about how to live.

And so a generation has been raised untutored in what was once called, aptly, “practical wisdom,” which guided previous generations. Millennials, often told they have received the finest education available anywhere, have actually suffered a form of serious intellectual and moral neglect. The relativists of my generation and Jordan’s, many of whom became their professors, chose to devalue thousands of years of human knowledge about how to acquire virtue, dismissing it as passé, “not relevant” or even “oppressive.” They were so successful at it that the very word “virtue” sounds out of date, and someone using it appears anachronistically moralistic and self-righteous.
The study of virtue is not quite the same as the study of morals (right and wrong, good and evil). Aristotle defined the virtues simply as the ways of behaving that are most conducive to happiness in life.

Vice was defined as the ways of behaving least conducive to happiness. He observed that the virtues always aim for balance and avoid the extremes of the vices. Aristotle studied the virtues and the vices in his Nicomachean Ethics. It was a book based on experience and observation, not conjecture, about the kind of happiness that was possible for human beings. Cultivating judgment about the difference between virtue and vice is the beginning of wisdom, something that can never be out of date.
By contrast, our modern relativism begins by asserting that making judgments about how to live is impossible, because there is no real good, and no true virtue (as these too are relative). Thus relativism’s closest approximation to “virtue” is “tolerance.” Only tolerance will provide social cohesion between different groups, and save us from harming each other. On Facebook and other forms of social media, therefore, you signal your so-called virtue, telling everyone how tolerant, open and compassionate you are, and wait for likes to accumulate. (Leave aside that telling people you’re virtuous isn’t a virtue, it’s self-promotion. Virtue signalling is not virtue. Virtue signalling is, quite possibly, our commonest vice.)

Intolerance of others’ views (no matter how ignorant or incoherent they may be) is not simply wrong; in a world where there is no right or wrong, it is worse: it is a sign you are embarrassingly unsophisticated or, possibly, dangerous.
But it turns out that many people cannot tolerate the vacuum—the chaos—which is inherent in life, but made worse by this moral relativism; they cannot live without a moral compass, without an ideal at which to aim in their lives. (For relativists, ideals are values too, and like all values, they are merely “relative” and hardly worth sacrificing for.) So, right alongside relativism, we find the spread of nihilism and despair, and also the opposite of moral relativism: the blind certainty offered by ideologies that claim to have an answer for everything.

And so we arrive at the second teaching that millennials have been bombarded with. They sign up for a humanities course, to study greatest books ever written. But they’re not assigned the books; instead they are given ideological attacks on them, based on some appalling simplification. Where the relativist is filled with uncertainty, the ideologue is the very opposite. He or she is hyper-judgmental and censorious, always knows what’s wrong about others, and what to do about it. Sometimes it seems the only people willing to give advice in a relativistic society are those with the least to offer.

Modern moral relativism has many sources. As we in the West learned more history, we understood that different epochs had different moral codes. As we travelled the seas and explored the globe, we learned of far-flung tribes on different continents whose different moral codes made sense relative to, or within the framework of, their societies. Science played a role, too, by attacking the religious view of the world, and thus undermining the religious grounds for ethics and rules. Materialist social science implied that we could divide the world into facts (which all could observe, and were objective and “real”) and values (which were subjective and personal). Then we could first agree on the facts, and, maybe, one day, develop a scientific code of ethics (which has yet to arrive). Moreover, by implying that values had a lesser reality than facts, science contributed in yet another way to moral relativism, for it treated “value” as secondary. (But the idea that we can easily separate facts and values was and remains naive; to some extent, one’s values determine what one will pay attention to, and what will count as a fact.)

The idea that different societies had different rules and morals was known to the ancient world too, and it is interesting to compare its response to this realization with the modern response (relativism, nihilism and ideology). When the ancient Greeks sailed to India and elsewhere, they too discovered that rules, morals and customs differed from place to place, and saw that the explanation for what was right and wrong was often rooted in some ancestral authority. The Greek response was not despair, but a new invention: philosophy.

Socrates, reacting to the uncertainty bred by awareness of these conflicting moral codes, decided that instead of becoming a nihilist, a relativist or an ideologue, he would devote his life to the search for wisdom that could reason about these differences, i.e., he helped invent philosophy. He spent his life asking perplexing, foundational questions, such as “What is virtue?” and “How can one live the good life?” and “What is justice?” and he looked at different approaches, asking which seemed most coherent and most in accord with human nature.

For the ancients, the discovery that different people have different ideas about how, practically, to live, did not paralyze them; it deepened their understanding of humanity and led to some of the most satisfying conversations human beings have ever had, about how life might be lived.


* Likewise, Aristotle. Instead of despairing about these differences in moral codes, Aristotle argued that though specific rules, laws and customs differed from place to place, what does not differ is that in all places human beings, by their nature, have a proclivity to make rules, laws and customs. To put this in modern terms, it seems that all human beings are, by some kind of biological endowment, so ineradicably concerned with morality that we create a structure of laws and rules wherever we are. The idea that human life can be free of moral concerns is a fantasy.

* We are rule generators. And given that we are moral animals, what must be the effect of our simplistic modern relativism upon us? It means we are hobbling ourselves by pretending to be something we are not. It is a mask, but a strange one, for it mostly deceives the one who wears it. Scccccratccch the most clever postmodern-relativist professor’s Mercedes with a key, and you will see how fast the mask of relativism (with its pretense that there can be neither right nor wrong) and the cloak of radical tolerance come off.


//
[Existentialism emphasizes the freedom of choice and the consequence of that choice. Depending on what you choose to do and how you choose to take responsibility, you can decide what life you will lead and what death you will meet.]

To pioneer was to cultivate barren land and turn it into useful land.

But that required one to choose to perform the action of ‘cultivating’. If not, the land would forever remain useless.

The outcome was not guaranteed even if he tried his best. Even so, hoping for the best outcome without doing anything to achieve it was nothing more than an irresponsible wish.


// David Foster Wallace "This is water"
	The really important kind of freedom involves attention and awareness and discipline, and being able 
truly to care about other people and to sacrifice for them over and over in myriad petty, unsexy ways every day. 
	That is real freedom. This is being educated, and understanding how to think. The alternative is 
unconsciousness, the default setting(of thinking were we are the center of universe), the rat race, the constant gnawing sense of having had, and lost, some infinite thing.


The capital-T Truth is about life before death.

It is about making it to thirty, or maybe even fifty, without wanting to shoot yourself in the head.

It is about the real value of a real education, which has nothing to do with grades or degrees and everything to do with simple awareness – awareness of what is so real and essential, so hidden in plain sight all around us, that we have to keep reminding ourselves over and over:

“This is water.”

“This is water.”

“These Eskimos might be much more than they seem.”

It is unimaginably hard to do this – to live consciously, adultly, day in and day out.

Which means yet another cliché is true: Your education really is the job of a lifetime, and it commences – now.

I wish you way more than luck.


Here's another didactic little story.

There are these two guys sitting together in a bar in the remote Alaskan wilderness.

One of the guys is religious, the other's an atheist, and they're arguing about the existence of God with that special intensity that comes after about the fourth beer.

And the atheist says, "Look, it's not like I don't have actual reasons for not believing in God.

It's not like I haven't ever experimented with the whole God-and-prayer thing.

Just last month, I got caught off away from the camp in that terrible blizzard, and I couldn't see a thing, and I was totally lost, and it was fifty below, and so I did, I tried it: I fell to my knees in the snow and cried out, 'God, if there is a God, I'm lost in this blizzard, and I'm gonna die if you don't help me!'"

And now, in the bar, the religious guy looks at the atheist all puzzled: "Well then, you must believe now," he says. "After all, here you are, alive."

The atheist rolls his eyes like the religious guy is a total simp: "No, man, all that happened was that a couple Eskimos just happened to come wandering by, and they showed me the way back to the camp."

It's easy to run this story through a kind of standard liberal arts analysis: The exact same experience can mean two completely different things to two different people, given those people's two different belief templates and two different ways of constructing meaning from experience.

Because we prize tolerance and diversity of belief, nowhere in our liberal arts analysis do we want to claim that one guy's interpretation is true and the other guy's is false or bad.

Which is fine, except we also never end up talking about just where these individual templates and beliefs come from, meaning, where they come from inside the two guys.

As if a person's most basic orientation toward the world and the meaning of his experience were somehow automatically hardwired, like height or shoe size, or absorbed from the culture, like language.

As if how we construct meaning were not actually a matter of personal, intentional choice, of conscious decision.

Plus, there's the matter of arrogance.

The nonreligious guy is so totally, obnoxiously confident in his dismissal of the possibility that the Eskimos had anything to do with his prayer for help.

True, there are plenty of religious people who seem arrogantly certain of their own interpretations, too.

They're probably even more repulsive than atheists, at least to most of us here, but the fact is that religious dogmatists' problem is exactly the same as the story's atheist's – arrogance, blind certainty, a closed-mindedness that's like an imprisonment so complete that the prisoner doesn't even know he's locked up.

The point here is that I think this is one part of what the liberal arts mantra of “teaching me how to think” is really supposed to mean: To be just a little less arrogant, to have some “critical awareness” about myself and my certainties... because a huge percentage of the stuff that I ten to be automatically certain of is, it turns out, totally wrong and deluded.

I have learned this the hard way, as I predict you graduates will, too.

Here's one example of the utter wrongness of something I tend to be automatically sure of.

Everything in my own immediate experience supports my deep belief that I am the absolute center of the universe, the realest, most vivid and important person in existence.

We rarely think about this sort of natural, basic self-centeredness, because it's so socially repulsive, but it's pretty much the same for all of us, deep down.

It is our default setting, hardwired into our boards at birth.

Think about it: There is no experience you've had that you were not at the absolute center of.

The world as you experience it is there in front of you, or behind you, to the left or right of you, on your TV, or your monitor, or whatever.

Other people's thoughts and feelings have to be communicated to you somehow, but your own are so immediate, urgent, real.

You get the idea.


This is not a matter of virtue – It's a matter of my choosing to do the work of somehow altering or getting free of my natural, hardwired default setting, which is to be deeply and literally self-centered, and to see and interpret everything through this lens of self.

People who can adjust their natural default setting this way are often described as being, quote, “well-adjusted,” which I suggest to you is not an accidental term.


Given the academic setting here, an obvious question is how much of this work of adjusting our default setting involves actual knowledge or intellect.

The answer, not surprisingly, is that it depends on what kind of knowledge we're talking about.

Probably the most dangerous thing about an academic education, at least in my own case, is that it enables my tendency to over-intellectualize stuff, to get lost in abstract thinking instead of simply paying attention to what's going on in front of me.


Instead of paying attention to what's going on inside me.

As I'm sure you guys know by now, it is extremely difficult to stay alert and attentive instead of getting hypnotized by the constant monologue inside your head.

What you don't yet know are the stakes of this struggle.

In the twenty years since my own graduation, I have come gradually to understand these stakes, and to see that the liberal arts cliché about “teaching you how to think” was actually shorthand for a very deep and important truth.

“Learning how to think” really means learning how to exercise some control over how and what you think.

It means being conscious and aware enough to choose what you pay attention to and to choose how you construct meaning from experience.

Because if you cannot or will not exercise this kind of choice in adult life, you will be totally hosed.

Think of the old cliché about the mind being “an excellent servant but a terrible master.”

This, like many clichés, so lame and banal on the surface, actually expresses a great and terrible truth.

It is not the least bit coincidental that adults who commit suicide with firearms nearly always shoot themselves in... the head.

And the truth is that most of these suicides are actually dead long before they pull the trigger.

And I submit that this is what the real, no-shit value of your liberal arts education is supposed to be about: How to keep from going through your comfortable, prosperous, respectable adult life dead, unconscious, a slave to your head and to your natural default setting of being uniquely, completely, imperially alone, day in and day out.

That may sound like hyperbole, or abstract nonsense.


And then you have to take your creepy flimsy plastic bags of groceries in your cart with the one crazy wheel that pulls maddeningly to the left, all the way out through the crowded, bumpy, littery parking lot, and try to load the bags in your car in such a way that everything doesn't roll out of the bags and roll around in the trunk on the way home, and then you have to drive all the way home through slow, heavy, SUV-intensive rush-hour traffic, et cetera, et cetera.

Everyone here has done this, of course – but it hasn't yet been part of your graduates' actual life routine, day after week after month after year.

But it will be, and many more dreary, annoying, seemingly meaningless routines besides...

Except that's not the point.

The point is that petty, frustrating crap like this is exactly where the work of choosing comes in.

Because the traffic jams and crowded aisles and long checkout lines give me time to think, and if I don't make a conscious decision about how to think and what to pay attention to, I'm gonna be pissed and miserable every time I have to food-shop, because my natural default setting is that situations like this are really all about me, about my hungriness and my fatigue and my desire to just get home, and it's going to seem, for all the world, like everybody else is just in my way, and who the fuck are all these people in my way?

And look at how repulsive most of them are and how stupid and cow-like and dead-eyed and nonhuman they seem here in the checkout line, or at how annoying and rude it is that people are talking loudly on cell phones in the middle of the line, and look at how deeply unfair this is: I've worked hard all day and I am starved and tired and I can't even get home to eat and unwind because of all these stupid goddamn people.

Or, of course, if I'm in a more socially conscious, liberal arts form of my default setting, I can spend time in the end-of-the-day traffic jam being angry and disgusted at all the huge, stupid, lane-blocking SUVs and Hummers and V-12 pickup trucks burning their wasteful, selfish, forty-gallon tanks of gas, and I can dwell on the fact that the patriotic or religious bumper stickers always seem to be on the biggest, most disgustingly selfish vehicles driven by the ugliest, most inconsiderate and aggressive drivers, who are usually talking on cell phones as they cut people off in order to get just twenty stupid feet ahead in the traffic jam, and I can think about how our children's children will despise us for wasting all the future's fuel and probably screwing up the climate, and how spoiled and stupid and selfish and disgusting we all are, and how it all sucks, and so on and so forth...

Look, if I choose to think this way, fine, lots of us do – except that thinking this way tends to be so easy and automatic it doesn't have to be a choice.

Thinking this way is my natural default setting.

It's the automatic, unconscious way that I experience the boring, frustrating, crowded parts of adult life when I'm operating on the automatic, unconscious belief that I am the center of the world and that my immediate needs and feelings are what should determine the world's priorities.

The thing is that there are obviously different ways to think about these kinds of situations.

In this traffic, all these vehicles stuck and idling in my way: It's not impossible that some of these people in SUVs have been in horrible auto accidents in the past and now find driving so traumatic that their therapist has all but ordered them to get a huge, heavy SUV so they can feel safe enough to drive; or that the Hummer that just cut me off is maybe being driven by a father whose little child is hurt or sick in the seat next to him, and he's trying to rush to the hospital, and he is in a way bigger, more legitimate hurry than I am – it is actually I who am in his way.

Or I can choose to force myself to consider the likelihood that everyone else in the supermarket's checkout line is probably just as bored and frustrated as I am, and that some of these people actually have much harder, more tedious or painful lives than I do, overall.

And so on.

And so on.

Again, please don't think that I'm giving you moral advice, or that I'm saying you are “supposed to” think this way, or that anyone expects you to just automatically do it, because it's hard, it takes will and mental effort, and if you're like me, some days you won't be able to do it, or else you just flat-out won't want to.

But most days, if you're aware enough to give yourself a choice, you can choose to look differently at this fat, dead-eyed, over-made-up lady who just screamed at her hid in the checkout line – maybe she's not usually like this; maybe she's been up three straight nights holding the hand of her husband, who's dying of bone cancer, or maybe this very lady is the low-wage clerk at the motor vehicles department who just yesterday helped your spouse resolve a nightmarish red-tape problem through some small act of bureaucratic kindness.

This, I submit, is the freedom of real education, of learning how to be well-adjusted: You get to consciously decide what has meaning and what doesn't.

You get to decide what to worship...

Because here's something else that's true.

In the day-to-day trenches of adult life, there is actually no such thing as atheism.

There is no such thing as not worshipping.

Everybody worships.

The only choice we get is what to worship.

**************************************************************************8
And an outstanding reason for choosing some sort of god or spiritual-type thing to worship – be it J.C. Or Allah, be it Yahweh or the Wiccan mother-goddess or the Four Noble Truths or some infrangible set of ethical principles – is that pretty much anything else you worship will eat you alive.

If you worship money and things – if they are where you tap real meaning in life – then you will never have enough.

Never feel you have enough.

It's the truth.


Worship your own body and beauty and sexual allure and you will always feel ugly, and when time and age start showing, you will die a million deaths before they finally plant you.

On one level we all know this stuff already – it's been codified as myths, proverbs, clichés, bromides, epigrams, parables: the skeleton of every great story.

Worship your intellect, being seen as smart – you will end up feeling stupid, a fraud, always on the verge of being found out.

And so on.

Look, the insidious thing about these forms of worship is not that they're evil or sinful; it is that they are unconscious.

They are default settings.

They're the kind of worship you just gradually slip into, day after day, getting more and more selective about what you see and how you measure value without ever being fully aware that that's what you're doing.

And the so-called “real world” will not discourage you from operating on your default settings, because the so-called “real world” of men and money and power hums along quite nicely on the fuel of fear and contempt and frustration and craving and the worship of self.

Our own present culture has harnessed these forces in ways that have yielded extraordinary wealth and comfort and personal freedom.

The freedom all to be lords of our tiny skull-sized kingdoms, alone at the center of all creation.

This kind of freedom has much to recommend it.

*************************************************
But of course there are all different kinds of freedom, and the kind that is most precious you will not hear much talked about in the great outside world of winning and achieving and displaying.

The really important kind of freedom involves attention, and awareness, and discipline, and effort, and being able truly to care about other people and to sacrifice for them, over and over, in myriad petty little unsexy ways, every day.

That is real freedom.

That is being taught how to think.

The alternative is unconsciousness, the default setting, the “rat race” - the constant, gnawing sense of having had and lost some infinite thing.

I know that this stuff probably doesn't sound fun and breezy or grandly inspirational the way a commencement speech's central stuff should sound.

What it is, so far as I can see, is the truth, with a whole lot of rhetorical bullshit pared away.

Obviously, you can think of it whatever you wish.

But please don't dismiss it as some finger-wagging Dr. Laura sermon.

None of this is about morality, or religion, or dogma, or big fancy questions of life after death.

The capital-T Truth is about life before death.

It is about making it to thirty, or maybe even fifty, without wanting to shoot yourself in the head.

It is about the real value of a real education, which has nothing to do with grades or degrees and everything to do with simple awareness – awareness of what is so real and essential, so hidden in plain sight all around us, that we have to keep reminding ourselves over and over:

“This is water.”

“This is water.”

“These Eskimos might be much more than they seem.”

It is unimaginably hard to do this – to live consciously, adultly, day in and day out.

Which means yet another cliché is true: Your education really is the job of a lifetime, and it commences – now.

I wish you way more than luck.


// 
What is cognitive dissonance?

Cognitive dissonance describes when we avoid having conflicting beliefs and attitudes because it makes us feel uncomfortable. The clash is usually dealt with by rejecting, debunking, or avoiding new information.

Where might I see it?
Consider the following hypothetical situation: John is an avid environmentalist. He is president of the environmental club at school, goes to climate change marches, and John’s family owns an electric car.

One day, he decides to attend a lecture on the negative environmental effects of certain animal products which apparently contribute significantly to climate change. To his dismay, John realizes that he uses many of those products on a regular basis. His stomach drops:

That means that he is part of the problem he is trying to resolve.

But this cannot be! John is a champion of the environment. But, he doesn’t think he is willing to stop eating meat and he knows his family won’t be.

To get rid of the pit in his stomach and resolve the identity crisis he is having, John quickly concludes that the speaker must not know what they are talking about. Also, he thinks, even if animal products aren’t great for the environment, he has done so many other things that are good for the environment, that it must even out (at least). John’s mind is put at ease.

Cognitive dissonance is at work here. To resolve the inconsistency revealed by this new information on certain animal products, John rejects and rationalizes the speech so that his identity as an environmentalist isn’t painfully compromised.

How it causes us to make bad decisions individually
Rejecting, rationalizing, or avoiding information that conflicts with our beliefs can lead us to make poor decisions. This is because the information is not rejected because it is false but because it makes us uncomfortable. Information that is both true and useful can often have this effect. Decisions made in the absence of true and useful information can have harmful consequences. Smoking, for example, has been shown to cause cancer and contribute to various other chronic health conditions. Smokers often rationalize their detrimental decision to continue smoking by either denying evidence that supports its health risks or by considering themselves to be the lucky exception.

How those decisions add up to systemic challenges
Looking further into the effects of cognitive dissonance leads to troubling conclusions across many different academic and political fields. If researchers tend to analyze information in a way that supports conclusions that are consistent with their own beliefs, then cognitive dissonance may threaten the objective methodology that underpins much of academia today. Likewise with social and political causes that require many people to seriously consider evidence that might challenge their existing beliefs, and sometimes change them.

Why does it happen?
Cognitive dissonance occurs when there is an uncomfortable tension between two or more beliefs that are held simultaneously.1 This most commonly occurs when our behaviors do not align with our attitudes – we believe one thing, but act against those beliefs. The strength of cognitive dissonance, or the pain it causes, depends on the number and relative weight of the conflicting beliefs. This mental conflict and the resulting discomfort motivates us to pick between beliefs by justifying and rationalizing one while rejecting or reducing the importance of the others.

We tend to pick the belief or idea that is most familiar and ingrained in us. Changing our beliefs isn’t easy, nor is changing the attitudes and behaviour associated with them. As a result, we usually stick with the beliefs we already hold, as opposed to adopting new ones that are presented to us. In fact, many of us go further by avoiding situations or information that might clash with our existing beliefs to create dissonance.

Psychologist Leon Festinger is credited with pioneering cognitive dissonance. He offers three explanations for why someone might be unwilling to change their existing beliefs or behaviour in light of new, conflicting information:

“The change may be painful or involve loss.” As mentioned above, changing our behaviour or beliefs can be difficult– especially if they are deeply held or likely to bring hardship.
“The present behavior may be otherwise satisfying.” Think of smokers, many of whom know the adverse consequences of their behaviour but succumb to the satisfaction that outweighs it. They are reluctant to accept information that confirms the future costs.
“Making the change may simply not be possible.” Festinger admits that this is unlikely, but still possible. Some emotional reactions for example, can be outside of our control at the time.2
Festinger goes on to point out that it is natural for us to look for internal psychological consistency. It forms our identity and allows us to make sense of the world. This makes sense: it would be difficult to think of yourself as a whole, and complete person if all your beliefs and opinions logically contradicted each other or never lined up with your behaviour.

“…the individual strives towards consistency within himself. His opinions and attitudes, for example, tend to exist in clusters that are internally consistent.”- Leon Festinger
Why should someone be aware of it?
If ignored, our responses to cognitive dissonance can have harmful consequences in our personal and professional lives. Remember the smoking example? This logic can be applied elsewhere in our personal lives. Avoiding dissonance may prevent us from considering new information and consequently, from changing harmful behaviours. If the contradictions between our beliefs and behaviours are not sorted out by making such changes (ie. if we deal with dissonance through rationalization), we might also be subject to hypocrisy.

In our professional lives, cognitive dissonance can result in missed opportunities. If we are hard-headed in our ways and unwilling to consider information that runs against our stance, then we will be less responsive and adaptable to situations in our workplace.

Think of an executive who is convinced that the product they are launching will succeed, and to avoid the painful realization that it may not, refuses to acknowledge the cries of his engineering team who claim that the product will malfunction. Likewise, many of us might reject evidence that our careers are not headed in the right direction, instead justifying our choice to keep on the same tracks and consequently forgo a more fruitful path.

How to avoid it
There is no way of avoiding cognitive dissonance itself. Remember that cognitive dissonance is just the discomfort we feel when our beliefs or attitudes contradict each other. What can be mitigated, is our natural response to this discomfort (ie. how we approach dissonance reduction).

Instead of shrinking away from information that might clash with our existing beliefs, we should try to embrace it as best we can. Part of this would seem to come from being open to change. Being proven wrong, or to realizing your hypocrisy should result in change rather than denial. Evaluate which conflicting belief to side with on the basis of its merit, not how familiar it is. This is easier said than done, but as always, being conscious of our natural response to these situations can help us curve it.

How it all started
While American psychologist Jack Brehm was the first to investigate the relationship between dissonance and decision making in 1956, psychologist Leon Festinger was the first to formulate it into a theory of social psychology. In his seminal book published in 1957, A Theory of Cognitive Dissonance, Festinger details his theory and points to its influence in the psychology of learning.

Festinger became interested in the phenomenon during his time at the University of Minnesota, during which he read about doomsday cults who believed messages from extraterrestrial aliens were communicating the world would end with a great flood on a specific date. He was curious about how they would react when the prophecy failed.

He studied their response, noting that instead of abandoning the cult and their philosophy, committed members doubled-down and increased their efforts to recruit others.

Festinger concluded that members had this response to lessen the pain of disconfirmation, which sparked an inquiry into cognitive dissonance.3

Example 1
Many of us avoid getting medical screenings when it is often in our best interest to do so. We convince ourselves that the symptoms are ‘probably nothing’ and that it will ‘go away by itself.’ This can be problematic for public health.

In 2016, researchers Michael Ent and Mary Gerend analyzed two studies on the relationship between cognitive dissonance on people’s negative attitudes towards beneficial medical screening.

In one of the studies, participants were told about an unpleasant test for a virus (which was fictitious). Half of them were told they qualified for testing, and the other half was led to believe they were not.

The results showed that eligible participants reported less favorable attitudes toward the unpleasant screening than those who were ineligible. So, the unpleasantness of a medical screening affected candidates’ attitudes towards it more than non-candidate’s attitudes. This was attributed to the experience of cognitive dissonance. Participants were caught in a clash between the obligation they feel towards maintaining their health through screening, and the discomfort of going through the screening. To deal with this dissonance, many participants looked down on the screening.4

Example 2
Many of us claim to value recycling and understand its positive impact on the environment when compared to non-renewable waste, but we still don’t recycle as much as we should. If this contradiction is understood, the feeling of hypocrisy it can produce leads many of us to rationalize our actions by adopting the belief that, for example, our individual actions have a negligible effect on the environment. We often see this argument put forward in debates surrounding climate change activism and environmental policy.

Summary
What it is
Cognitive Dissonance is a theory proposing that we avoid having conflicting beliefs and attitudes because it makes us uncomfortable. The clash is usually dealt with by rejecting, debunking, or avoiding new information.

Why it happens
Cognitive dissonance occurs when there is an uncomfortable tension between two or more beliefs that are held simultaneously. This most commonly occurs when our behaviors do not align with our attitudes – we believe one thing, but act against those beliefs. The resulting discomfort motivates us to pick between beliefs by rationalizing one and rejecting or delegitimizing the other(s). We tend to pick the belief or idea that is most ingrained in us, which is the one we already hold. It is natural for us to look for internal psychological consistency, as it forms our identity and allows us to make sense of the world.

Example #1
A 2016 analysis of two studies by researchers Michael Ent and Mary Gerend details our reluctance to undergo beneficial medical screenings. In one of the studies, participants were told about an unpleasant test for a virus. Half of them were told they qualified for testing, and the other half was told they did not. Results showed that eligible participants reported less favorable attitudes toward the unpleasant screening than those who were ineligible. Participants were caught in a clash between the obligation they feel towards maintaining their health through screening, and the discomfort of going through the screening. To deal with this dissonance, many participants looked down on the screening.

Example #2
Many of us claim to support environmentalism through small initiatives such as recycling, but we still don’t recycle as much as we should. The feeling of hypocrisy can produce leads many of us to rationalize our actions by adopting the belief that our individual actions have a negligible effect on the environment. This argument is often seen in debates surrounding climate change activism and environmental policy.

How to avoid it
There is no way of avoiding cognitive dissonance itself. What can be mitigated, is our natural response to it. Instead of shrinking away from information that might clash with our existing beliefs, we should try to embrace it as best we can. Part of this would seem to come from being open to change. Being proven wrong or realizing your hypocrisy should result in change rather than denial. This is easier said than done, but as always, being conscious of our natural response to these situations can help us curve it.


//
“If I just went to your house to practise, imagine how uncomfortable I would be. It would also look like I’m using you to make my life easier if I came and went from your house after just practicing.”

And if I had to repay the favour to not feel indebted, that would ultimately take time away from my practices so that would be putting the cart before the horse. In the end, it would just ruin our relationship.

“Is that how it is?”

“Nn. Anyway, thank you for the offer but I’ll just go to the school. It’s not right to feel awkward amongst friends just to save 30 minutes right?”

//
If you want to snap out of a negative state, create positive emotions , use memories of times when you succeeded or use your imagination to create a positive image of yourself etc.


// 
If you want to move forward you must resolve your negative emotions first, receiving advice or giving logical advice to people that are feeling down often does not work because their emotions are hindering them. Compassion and understanding may work better, resolve negative emotions first. 

You can't just tell them to cheer up, in the future things will bee better, while true for most things that may not be true for a particular circumstance.



//
FINDING CONNECTION

 
Of course, increasing social connection is easier said than done. And the process raises a host of practical questions. Who’s available to connect with? What should I be doing with them? Should I focus more on family or friends? What about coworkers? And what if certain people make me feel worse every time I’m around them? Am I supposed to spend more time with them, as well?
 
In navigating this tangled maze of questions, it helps at the outset to keep in view one critical fact: There are many varieties of social connection, and all of them are potentially helpful. For example, members of traditional societies like the Kaluli of Papua New Guinea—among whom social support is abundant, and depression virtually unknown—benefit from social ties that span multiple levels of closeness: from the deep intimacy of immediate family and friends to the comforting familiarity of extended family to the profound sense of belonging provided by membership in the clan itself (a hundred or so people linked by a shared identity and a common destiny).

Anyone lucky enough to draw upon such deep, multilayered sources of social support will be unlikely to get depressed. But such fortunate individuals are now the exception, not the rule, throughout the modern industrialized world. Sadly, the past few decades have seen the steady erosion of social bonds across every domain of American life.
 
Compared with our counterparts from even a generation ago, we’re much less likely to know our neighbors, to invite friends over for dinner, to join social clubs, to participate in a local church or synagogue or mosque, or to take part in community sports leagues (bowling, softball, tennis, and so on). We’re less likely to get married, and less likely to stay married when we do take the plunge. We also spend less time developing and maintaining friendships. According to a recent landmark study of American social life, half of all adults lack even a single close friend they can rely on.
 
What’s happened? I believe many of us now live as if we value things more than people. In America, we spend more time than ever at work, and we earn more money than any generation in history, but we spend less and less time with our loved ones as a result. Likewise, many of us barely think twice about severing close ties with friends and family to move halfway across the country in pursuit of career advancement. We buy exorbitant houses—the square footage of the average American home has more than doubled in the past generation—but increasingly we use them only to retreat from the world. And even within the home-as-refuge, sealed off from the broader community “out there,” each member of the household can often be found sitting alone in front of his or her own private screen—exchanging time with loved ones for time with a bright, shiny object instead.
 
Now, I’m not saying that any of us—if asked—would claim to value things more than people. Nor would we say that our loved ones aren’t important to us. Of course they are. But many people now live as if achievement, career advancement, money, material possessions, entertainment, and status matter more. Unfortunately, such things don’t confer lasting happiness, nor do they protect us from depression. Loved ones do.
 
For most of us in this culture of isolation, there’s considerable room for improvement when it comes to enhancing social connectedness. This is especially true for those who’ve battled depression, because the disorder—with its characteristic pattern of withdrawal and negativity—has a corrosive effect on relationships.
 
In the pages that follow, we’ll outline strategies for improving connections with friends, family members, coworkers, and other members of the community. The ideal, as we saw earlier in the case of the Kaluli people, is to benefit from abundant support across each of these important domains.
 
Achieving this ideal takes some time, and it may not be a realistic goal for everyone in the short-term, especially for those currently in the midst of a depressive episode. Fortunately, however, any improvement in social connection can be of some immediate benefit in the fight against depression, so the focus of each section ahead will be on those changes that can make a difference right away. (We’ll also point out some potential longer-term goals for those who are not depressed, but still want to reduce their risk of illness in the future.)

 
FRIENDS

 
Over time, depression can take an enormous toll on friendships. When someone first becomes depressed, there’s a natural tendency for friends to rally to their side—to provide increased support, and to try whatever else they can think of to help. But as the weeks pass and the symptoms persist, the illness starts to weave its toxic spell of social isolation, straining even the strongest of bonds.
 
For those friends who don’t understand the seriousness of depression, the disorder’s characteristic withdrawal can become a source of great pain and frustration. Simply put: It’s hard to watch someone pulling away from you and shutting down, especially when you can’t figure out why in the world it’s happening.
 
Even friends who know that social withdrawal is a core symptom of depression may find themselves feeling rejected. After all, it’s only human to feel hurt when a friend starts shutting you out—failing to return phone calls, refusing offers to get together, and sending signals about their complete lack of interest 
in connecting.
 
Ironically, those suffering from the disorder commonly feel as if they’re doing their friends a favor by pulling away. My patients tell me this all the time. Under the influence of depression’s starkly negative thinking, they say things like: “My friends are better off without me.” “I’m such a downer to be around, no one could possibly want to spend time with me.” “They’re only calling me out of pity.” Even though such thoughts may be wildly distorted and off-the-mark (as they are in the vast majority of cases), such perceptions still feel true to the person in the grip of depressive illness.
 
It’s little wonder, then, that most patients withdraw from even their dearest, closest friends—with predictably tragic results. Fortunately, however, it’s almost always possible to turn things around, to renew the bonds of friendship, no matter how much depression may have strained a relationship. In my clinical experience, the following steps usually prove helpful in that respect.
 
Disclose. Because of the lingering stigma associated with depression, many people are reluctant to let even their closest friends know about their struggle with the illness. It’s understandable: No one wants to risk being viewed as “crazy” (or weak, or lazy, or any number of other qualities mistakenly attributed to those suffering from depression). But I believe our 

friends have a right to know what we’re going through, especially when we’re facing a treacherous enemy like depression. Honest disclosure about our struggles is essential to maintaining (or reestablishing) the health of any friendship.
 
Educate. Often, however, mere disclosure is not enough. Many friends need to be educated about depression as well. In particular, they have to understand three things: Depression is an illness—one that robs people of their ability to function; like many other forms of illness, depression typically leads its victims to withdraw from friends and loved ones; nevertheless, social support can play an important role in the recovery process. It’s also often useful to ask friends to read a good overview38 of the disorder that covers these points in some detail.
 
Ask. Many of us find it difficult to ask for help, even from our closest friends. But depression is such a serious affliction that most people are eager to do whatever they can for a friend who’s been laid low. When I speak about depression in the community, the most common question I get is, “What can I do to help someone who’s fighting this illness?”
 
The most useful thing, by far, is to spend regular time together in shared activities: walking, working out, grabbing a meal, playing games, going to a concert, attending a play, watching a film, and so on. As we saw in Chapter 5, such activities are especially effective in combating depressive rumination. They 
also help to reactivate the brain’s left frontal cortex, which itself provides a direct antidepressant effect. Accordingly, in our Therapeutic Lifestyle Change (TLC) groups, each patient is asked to adopt the goal of scheduling at least three such activities each week with friends or other close acquaintances.
 
Jamie, a fortyish real estate agent in one of our TLC groups, was intimidated by this goal, but she told us she was willing—despite her fear of rejection—to start by calling her best friend Deb (whom she hadn’t seen in weeks) to see if she might want to get together sometime. With trepidation, she began the conversation by telling Deb some of the things she’d learned in treatment: that depression had caused her to withdraw, that her isolation was making the depression worse, and that she needed help from friends and loved ones to break the destructive pattern of withdrawal. To Jamie’s immense relief, her friend told her, “Look, I’m here for you—for anything you need, and I’m so glad there’s something I can do that might help.” Before hanging up, they penciled a weekly lunch date into their calendars, and even made plans to hit a karaoke bar together that weekend.
 
Jamie also asked Deb for help initiating their future get-togethers. As we’ve seen, depression shuts down activity in those areas of the brain that allow us to initiate things. So, good intentions, including the plan to spend more time with friends, don’t always get translated into action. Acknowledging this point openly with her friend, Jamie told her, “I really want us to get together more often, but because of the depression, I might have trouble taking the initiative sometimes. Would you be willing to stay on me about it—to call me anytime you haven’t heard from me in a while, and to insist that we set something up?” Predictably, her friend was more than willing to help on this front, as well.
 
Avoid negativity. Under the bleak spell of depression, people’s thoughts often turn starkly negative, even when they’re in the company of friends. Although sharing such dark thoughts might seem like a natural thing to do, excessive disclosure on this front can quickly turn counterproductive. Remember, spending time with others is helpful in part because it’s a powerful way to interrupt rumination—the depressive habit of dwelling on upsetting thoughts—but it can do so only if the social interaction centers on something other than the depressing thoughts themselves. Unfortunately, the process of sharing negative reflections with friends can easily lead to a full-blown episode of rumination.
 
Consider the following dialogue, based on a conversation one of my patients, Becky, had while meeting with her friend Joan (after several weeks of self-imposed isolation):
Joan: It’s so good to see you. I’ve really missed you, you know?
 
Becky: Yeah, I’ve missed you, too. (Awkward pause.) God, I’m such a mess right now—I can’t even make small talk. 

I’m just not much fun to be around.
 
Joan: Hey, come on. You know that’s not true. And besides, we all go through rough patches sometimes. That’s when we need our friends the most, right?
 
Becky: I guess so. But I just hate being such a burden to people all the time . . .
 
Joan: What are you talking about? Becky, you’re not a burden.
 
Becky: I’d probably say the same thing if I were you. But no one wants to be around someone who’s like this. I mean, look at me. I feel like crap, I’m cranky as hell, and my mind doesn’t even work right half the time. (She starts crying softly.)
 
Joan: (Holds her hand reassuringly.) Look, I’m sorry you’re going through such a hard time right now, but I want you to know I’m here for you.
 
Becky: Even though I’m ruining your whole day?
 
Joan: Becky, that’s crazy! You’re not ruining my day.
 
Becky: (Sighs) Well, you sound kind of irritated . . . I guess I don’t blame you.
 
Joan: No, I’m not irritated, I’m just—it’s just hard to see you being so tough on yourself.
 
Becky: I’m sorry. I don’t mean to be so hard to be around. That’s the only thing I’m really good at right now—making people upset. I knew it was a bad idea for me to come over . . .
 
 
Notice that the more Becky gave voice to her negative thoughts, the more she was unable to turn her attention away from them, despite her friend’s reassuring attempts to help her see things in a more positive light. Sadly, once a conversation takes this sort of ruminative turn, it can be difficult to prevent the ensuing downward spiral. That’s why it’s usually a good idea to rein in the impulse to give voice to negative thoughts, and to plan social interactions as much as possible around shared activities instead.
 
(Becky discovered the wisdom of this approach for herself 
during her next social get-together with Joan—a night of country line dancing. Even though she told me beforehand how much she had dreaded going out, she later conceded that the outing was more fun than anything she’d done in months.)
 
Another dangerous trap to avoid with friends and loved ones is excessive reassurance seeking. Although the quest for reassurance can sometimes take the form of a direct question (“Do you really want to spend time with me?”), in many cases it’s more subtle: putting oneself down in order to hear the reassurance that reliably follows. For example, every time Becky beat herself up—“I’m not much fun to be around”; “I hate being such a burden”; “I’m ruining your day”—her friend responded with words of support and encouragement. Such reassurance can be addictive, especially for someone who’s already feeling insecure (as most depressed patients are), and it can “program” people to become even tougher on themselves. (It’s not a conscious strategy on their part, by the way; those with depression are not consciously thinking, “I’ll criticize myself so people will say nice things about me”—but the reliable connection between self-criticism and reassurance registers with the brain, which often guides future behavior on an unconscious level.)
 
Sadly, the reassurance of others rarely make things any better: The positive feedback clashes so sharply with the depressed individual’s negative self-view that it’s dismissed almost immediately. Ironically, the best way to combat depressive feelings of insecurity is often to ignore them, to divert attention instead to more engaging social activities that have the power to lift mood and shift the brain into a less negative mode of thinking.

//
he vowed to never ask others for a helping hand. Money was something that could be earned and lost, but the moment you lost a person, it ended there. Relationships were something that couldn’t be recovered. Instead, they had to be forgotten and started over from the beginning. A ripped piece of paper remained ripped even if it was pieced it back together.
He would live the same life regardless of whether he had money. Ganghwan saw countless people whose relationships had broken down because of money related problems. He’d learned enough lessons through them.

“When a concern remains a worry, it’ll look like a wall impossible to climb. However, if you collide with it, it often ends up not being much. The phrase, ‘Life is a tragedy from up close, but a comedy from faraway’, isn’t there for show.”


// 
Depression is like having a lot of mosquitoes on your back. You can't see them, feel them, touch them but they are there, slowly but surely weighing you down, sucking the life out of you and crippling your willpower, intelligence and ability to initiate the things you need to do. Especially new things even if you know these actions will take you out of the hole, the left part of your frontal lobe now has reduced activity that's why it's hard to start new things. 


// motivation, pleasure, happiness, content
Motivation, sometimes you see it in other people, sometimes it happens to you. To feel very motivated after seeing the performance of another human, or after reading a story, or after seeing a video or movie. People get motivated start doing the thing that got them motivated and then pretty soon they lose interest.

What happens is your brain chemically rewarded you when you imagined yourself becoming a better version of yourself. The thing is the brain will achieve homeostasis(balance), it can't afford to keep you high on endorphins and dopamine. When that happens people quit.

Some suggest you have to force yourself, but that just robs you of your willpower. Sure you may force yourself to start the activity, but the process should flow without forcing yourself.

In term of a graph, you want to operate slightly above the x axis, you don't want to be in the negative but you also can't be to high on y axis because the brain will just push that down.

It's like eating candy and rice. One gives high, fast pleasure but then it drops fast and then you feel bad. The other gives slow and little pleasure but it's much more stable, to sudden highs and lows.

What you want to aim at is contentment not hedonism.



// 
I remember being shocked the first few times I went to Africa.
I was shocked when I met a one-legged taxi driver in Kenya.
I was shocked when I met Sonia, an orphan schoolgirl in Rwanda.
And I was shocked when I met a disabled subsistence farmer in Mozambique.
What shocked me wasn't their poverty, but their happiness.
I found their happiness confronting, far more confronting than poverty.
Of course, not everyone was happy,
but of those above a basic subsistence threshold level,
I was surprised at how genuinely content many of them were.
And I became fascinated by this notion, this idea of happiness.
And since then, I've researched it, I've worked on it, I've thought about it.
I'm interested in it from an economics perspective;
it's one of the things that I research at Oxford.
And I'm interested in it from a social enterprise perspective
because happiness is, after all, the ultimate social outcome.
I think it's particularly appropriate to talk about happiness
because we have with us the Prime Minister of Bhutan,
the very man who pioneered, who introduced,
and who championed the idea of gross domestic happiness,
rather than GDP, as a way of tracking a country's progress,
as a way of monitoring how governments are doing.
But before we go into that, I want to begin with a little quiz, a game.
It's just a simple multiple-choice quiz,
and I've invited some other participants to join us on stage.
So, I want you to just raise your hand,
I want you to answer honestly when I give the questions.
So the first question.
Imagine that you're competing in the Olympic Games,
representing your country,
what would you prefer out of the following:
would you prefer to come second, to come third, or to come second last?
Answer honestly: who would prefer to come second?
Raise your hand.
Excellent!
Who would prefer to come third?
And who would prefer to come second last?
Excellent. It seems a large chunk of you wants to come second last.
I'm not sure I'd be selecting you for my Olympic team, but -
(Laughter)
The monkeys, they select a third, a third, a third;
they don't quite understand the question, but they knew there are three options.
(Laughter)
It's probably no surprise that amongst the general population,
most prefer second.
So that's question one.
Question number two.
Imagine that you're given one of two options:
either you win the lottery, and you get ten million dollars tomorrow,
you can spend it however you want;
or option B,
alternatively, you get a very small payment tomorrow,
but you get gradual payments throughout your lifetime -
increasing payments,
and in total, you get eight million dollars
over the course of your lifetime.
If I gave you that option right now, what would you pick?
Who would pick option A?
A lot of people.
Who would pick option B?
Excellent.
Amongst the general population,
most people seem to be quite short-sighted;
most people like the ten million dollars tomorrow.
Again, the monkeys 50:50.
(Laughter)
They did recognize there were two options, not three.
Third and final question.
You get to choose your salary: what do you pick?
You get 50,000, and everyone else gets 50,000.
You get 50,000 and everyone else gets 60,000,
or you get 40,000 and everyone else you know gets 30,000.
Who would pick option A?
Who would pick option B? Virtually no one.
Who would pick option C?
I think there's one person in an audience of about 200.
You're pretty consistent with the general population,
most go for option A.
The monkeys, no surprises there.
But let's now think about what the actual answers are.
What does the research say about what actually makes us content,
what actually makes us satisfied,
what actually makes us happy?
To question one,
the answer is actually to come third,
which I think was the lowest of the three options that you all gave.
There's no shortage of silver medalists who appear unhappy.
(Laughter)
So that was question one.
Question two, I think you did better on.
You picked option B, you went against the general population,
and I think you beat the monkeys on this occasion:
they beat you on question one; you won question two.
And for question three, the correct answer was actually C,
which I think only one person got correct.
And so the monkeys beat you on two out of three on those,
in terms of what actually makes us content, satisfied, and happy
as the research has shown.
So I think it's fair to say that in general,
you're slightly better predictors of happiness than the general population,
but you're still pretty pathetic, I'm sorry to say.
I think the monkeys beat you, maybe that's why they're smiling.
They won two out of three.
And what's interesting is that it's not only us
that's bad predictors of happiness.
The macro data actually support this as well.
We're wealthier than ever, but unhappier than ever.
We're more prosperous, but more depressed.
We're less satisfied.
We have faster and faster transport,
but we're faster and faster to complain about it.
In many countries, there are now more suicides than homicides.
We now have more goods and services than ever before.
We have technology improving exponentially,
but we don't see a corresponding increase
in our life satisfaction, in our happiness.
It's perhaps one of the great paradoxes of our time.
And I think the obvious question is,
Why is it that governments and individuals are such bad predictors of happiness?
Why is that we get it wrong so often?
And I think it's because we don't really understand
why it is that we're often unhappy.
And so the obvious question is, Why is it that we're unhappy?
What's the explanation?
Now it's not an easy question to answer,
but it's one that I've thought about, researched, and delved into.
And through my research over the years, through thinking about it,
I think there's one explanation that I find far more compelling,
far more plausible, far more persuasive than any other.
And that explanation
isn't that we have so much choice that we get stressed.
It's not that we are economically worse off;
in many cases, we're economically better off.
It's not that we just have great reporting of depression and suicide;
that's true, but it only explains a small portion of the data.
It's not due to family breakdowns or reduced freedom.
You know, the reason why we're unhappy, the most compelling reason -
as shown by the data, as shown by research -
relates to expectations.
At a very basic, simple level,
we're unhappy when our expectations of reality
exceed our experiences of reality.
When our expectations exceed reality.
And I'd like to call this an expectation gap,
when our expectations are greater than reality.
It's a very simple concept, but it's a hugely important concept
to fully understand, to fully get our head around.
And to help us get our head around it,
I'd like to think in terms of three different types of expectation gaps -
three different types of gaps
based on the different ways in which we form expectations.
I think we form expectations based on our imagination,
based on those around us, and based on our past experiences.
So to this first type of expectation gap, the imagination gap,
which occurs when our imagination exceeds reality.
You see, when we choose to buy goods, we choose from a range of options.
When we choose where to travel to, we often choose from a range of options.
When we choose which leader to elect, we often choose from a range of options.
And how do we make that decision?
What we do is that we choose the one that we think will be the best.
We choose the one that we imagine will be the best of all the options.
What we do is we try to maximize our utility at a given price,
that's how most people make decisions.
To do otherwise would be
to choose an option that we didn't think would be as good,
which seems a bit counterintuitive.
Now the problem here is that the very act of choosing the thing
that we think will give us the greatest happiness,
that very decision-making process
is the thing that actually undermines our happiness
because what it means is that when we then see reality,
when we then experience it,
whether it's the good
or the place we travel to or the leader that we elect,
it's highly likely that that reality won't live up to our expectation.
And that leads to disappointment.
And technology makes this so much worse.
What technology has loused
is things that are actually unrealistic to appear real,
things that aren't even on the happiness scale
are made to seem as though they are actually possible.
We photoshop things in, we airbrush things out,
we digitally enhance photos.
And what this does is it makes us romanticize travel
and makes us come up with fantastical ideas
about places that reality simply can't live up to.
So we think Sagrada Família looks like this,
when it actually looks like this.
(Laughter)
We think the Taj Mahal always looks like this,
when, actually, often it looks like this.
We think that the Mona Lisa looks like this,
when, actually, if we go and visit it, it's more likely to look like this.
(Laughter)
What technology does is that it skews our vision, it distorts reality
and makes the unreal seem real.
Indeed, many of the times
that when we're happiest when we go travelling,
they're actually the times when we stumble across things we didn't expect,
when we discover things for ourselves,
where we don't have preconceived notions of different places.
And what also makes this worse is selection bias.
Many content-based algorithms,
whether it's a Google search or Facebook News Feed,
the way that it presents information
is that it prioritizes those things that are the best images,
the most shared images, the most liked images.
You're more likely be shown a photo on Facebook
if it has 200 likes than if it has 2.
And so we come to think of the best images as being normal, as being average.
And this also plays with our imagination.
That's selection bias.
Then there's persuasion,
because politicians often get elected on the basis of promising things
that they can't deliver, by raising our expectations.
Who would you be more likely to vote for?
A politician that says, "I'll fix your problems if you vote for me,"
or someone who says, perhaps more honestly,
"Things will probably be the same, whether you vote for me or not"?
Probably you'll vote for the former,
but you'll probably be disappointed as well.
And so we're in this constant cycle of expectations being raised
and hopes being dashed.
It's the same with companies.
I mean, companies are more likely to tell us
that watches have never performed tasks so quickly.
They're probably not going to tell us batteries have never run out so quickly,
both of which are true.
And so when you have technology,
when you have persuasion, and when you have selection bias,
what that means is that we imagine and demand and expect more
than reality can provide.
And when the limitless potential of our minds
is met by the confined nature of earth,
we're disappointed, we're unhappy.
Expectations and disappointments irrevocably intertwined.
In terms of beauty, it's no wonder that self-esteem levels are so low.
I mean, advertisers learned long ago
that if you can make people hate themselves,
you can sell them things.
Now they're applying it time and time again,
and we see this.
What we see is advertisers showing only the best before-and-after photos.
What we see is pictures of models who are made to seem perfectly
even though they're not.
We've become a society of complainers, of perfectionists,
of counter-factual historians -
people who always imagine different and better outcomes for ourselves,
but people whose imagination can't be satisfied.
So that's the imagination gap.
That's why our imagination exceeds reality,
and that's the first main reason why we're unhappy.
The second main type of expectation that we have,
I like to call the interpersonal gap.
That's where we compare our reality to the reality of others.
Put simply, we judge ourselves based on what we experience around us.
If you earn 50,000 dollars in a poor neighborhood,
you'll feel rich.
If you earn 50,000 dollars in a wealthy neighborhood,
you'll feel poor.
If you get a small pay rise,
but everyone around you gets a large pay rise,
you'll be disappointed.
Your gain is someone's pain; someone's pain is your gain.
Unfortunately,
it's a bit of a zero-sum game, or so it seems.
And it's not only relative income that matters;
it's also relative appearance that matters.
One person's plastic surgery is another's psychic loss.
Indeed, research has shown that we're actually happier
when we're with worse looking people
because we're perceived by others to be objectively better looking.
So when your friend asks you to come to a bar or to a club with them,
you know why.
(Laughter)
And what's particularly interesting about this
is that we have an asymmetry of emphasis -
we prioritize, we focus on one end of the spectrum.
We focus on the rich, the famous, the beautiful,
and pay less attention to the other end.
And so we're made to seem poorer, made to feel poorer,
made to feel less successful than we actually are.
It's almost as though we're running on a hedonic treadmill,
constantly striving to be happy, but getting no closer,
because when our standard of living improves,
if everyone else's standard of living improves as well,
we don't always feel happier.
So that's the second way in which we form expectations,
based on others around us.
The third and final way
is based on our past, based on our past experiences.
I call this the intertemporal gap.
And we're unhappy when our past reality is better than our present reality.
Take two people
who have the same average lifetime income.
There's person A whose income decreases over their lifetime,
person B whose income increases.
Now, research shows that you're always happier if you're person B,
if you have that increasing income,
even though the average might be the same.
Why is this?
It's because of something that psychologists refer to as anchoring.
We compare to our past, and if you're constantly improving,
constantly exceeding expectations, constantly moving forward,
you're generally happy.
The reverse is true if you're person A.
And so what does this mean in terms of raising children?
I think often we tend to spoil children;
we tend to give them everything to give them the best start in life.
But often the best intentions don't always lead to the best outcomes.
Yes, we should support children,
but if we give them everything,
it's much harder for them to have what I call
a positive intertemporal gradient -
it's harder for them to improve over time throughout their life
and that actually potentially undermines their happiness.
While I'm talking about parenting,
I think another problem in our society
is that we tend to tell children that they're special, that they're unique,
that they're one-of-a-kind, that they're amazing.
We tell them they can be Prime Minister or President,
that they can be the next Mark Zuckerberg.
We tell them that they'll be Beyonce one day.
What this means is that we raise their expectations.
And so when that child gets a normal job,
when they start a business, and it fails, like most do,
when they're seeing career peaks
with a rendition of single ladies in the shower,
they're disappointed, they're unhappy,
their expectations haven't been satisfied.
Yes, we want to give children self-belief,
but we don't want to delude them, and we don't want to delude ourselves.
So what we see is that our happiness is largely determined by expectations.
Our expectations are largely determined by what we consider to be normal.
And what we consider to be normal is largely based on our imagination,
based on others around us, and based on our past.
And so we have these constant battles:
the battle between our imagination and our reality;
the battle between the reality that we experience
and what we think or perceive that others experience;
the battle between our reality and our past reality.
How can we win these battles?
I think the first challenge,
the challenge for entrepreneurs and businessmen,
for parents, for legislators, for magazine editors
is to take happiness seriously,
to take expectations seriously.
I think, often we relegate happiness to the world of art, not science.
We dismiss it,
we think of it in terms of hippies rather than businessmen.
What we want is for entrepreneurs
to focus on actually improving contentment,
not just increasing consumption.
In terms of winning the imagination battle,
I think it's important that we make it known to content providers,
the importance of actually having realistic representations
of images, people, and places and events.
And we might even go so far
as to ban things like digital enhancement in ads.
In terms of winning the interpersonal battle,
I think it's important that governments prioritize income equality
and that we learn to compete against ourselves
rather than against others.
And in terms of that intertemporal battle,
I think it's important that we support kids, encourage kids,
but also make them realize when it's impossible
and not to give them completely unrealistic expectations.
Let me conclude.
We seem to have been seduced into a way of life
that almost conspires in every way
against the most basic level of contentment.
We're terrible predictors of what will make us happy.
I mean, anytime monkeys beat you, you know there's a problem.
We're terrible predictors of happiness
because the way in which we rationalize,
the way in which we make decisions is optimal on the basis of actual levels,
absolute levels,
but the way in which we feel
is based on relative outcomes, based on expectations.
It's expectation that explains
why a bronze medalist can be happier than a silver medalist,
because the silver medalist imagines coming first,
the bronze medalist imagines coming fourth.
It's expectation that explains why, often, lottery winners aren't that happy;
their happiness doesn't last
because they don't have that increasing level of satisfaction
throughout their life.
It's expectation that explains why you can be happier
with an income of 40,000 to an income of 50,000.
We often think of happiness in isolation, in a vacuum,
when in reality our happiness is far more complicated;
it's far more intertwined
with our community, our imagination, and our past.
And it's important that we think carefully
about how our minds work, how our feelings work,
how our expectations work.
And it's important that we change the way in which we make decisions
so that our thinking process matches our feeling process.
Ladies and gentlemen,
for entrepreneurs that want to improve the lives of others,
as well as for people that want to be happy,
I think the first step is understanding why we're unhappy.
And I hope that the next time, if ever it happens,
that your decision-making prowess is compared to that of monkeys,
I hope you come out on top.
Thank you.


// In open source projects everybody knows better but they don't do the work.

//
Happiness cannot be pursued; it must ensue, and it only does so as the unintended side effect of one's personal dedication to a cause greater than oneself or as the by-product of one's surrender to a person other than oneself.

The more a man tries to demonstrate his sexual potency or a woman her ability to experience orgasm, the less they are able to succeed. Pleasure is, and must remain, a side-effect or by-product, and is destroyed and spoiled to the degree to which it is made a goal in itself.

// In life you are dealt a hand of card and you play the game with what you have. Some people are born with all kinds of weaknesses and they have to manage somehow. Just because for example alcohol gives you more pleasure than others that does not mean you should become an alcoholic, just because everyone around you eats animal products and processed food that does not mean you are doomed to follow. Change what you can for the better, learn to live with the rest, you don't have a better strategy neither does anyone else. Easy words hard to put into practice.


You have to recognize all the bad stuff a wrong diet can do to a human, see all that misery and run from it to a better goal, to an image of you as healthy and stronger version. Because if you want happiness in life you must have a base for it. You want to keep sickness, depression etc away, exercise and nutrition are big chunks from the whole that will help you.

//
Be very careful of letting other do things for you that you can do yourself. You can become resentful and bitter. This can be seen often in children, the parent will do everything and the child never grows. The potential was devoured.

It's surprising how humans with great empathy can destroy/devour the one/ones they love, and not even seeing it. By caring too much, doing a too much for a person you smother their potential, and they might become bitter and resentful. You want to offer just enough so that person can walk on the road of becoming a better person, walking on that road is energizing and rewarding.

People that empathizing too much are also very hostile to other groups, seen as threat to the ones they want to protect. That can lead to violence so be careful.


//------------ quotes from people
1 A goal
2 Attitude our attitude toward the world. We have the ability to change our environment.
3 Think.  The only thing about a man that is a man is it’s his mind everything else you can find in a pig or horse. Spend some time in front of a paper and think of new ideas about achieving your goal.
4 Reap what you saw. There are rewards in life equal to our contribution. Story preacher and the nice farm(Preacher: God has blessed you with a magnificent farm. Farmer: You should have seen this place when he had it all to himself.)
5 Truth. Build on truth or else you build on sand.
6 How much did you invest in yourself to make you smarter than the year before.
7 Strangest Secret: We become what we think most of the time. By thinking you will become that.
8 Imagination is everything. We can become what we imagine. If you get depressed "
Do your work. Not just your work and no more, but a little more for the lavishing sake. That little more which is worth all the rest. And if you doubt as you must; and if you suffer as you must-- do your work. Put your heart into it and the sky will clear. And then out of your very doubt and suffering will be born the supreme joy of life."
In life our greatest joys,satisfactions and rewards will come from our work not our leisure.


Henry James
Live all you can — it's a mistake not to. It doesn't so much matter what you do in particular, so long as you have your life. If you haven't had that, what have you had?... What one loses one loses; make no mistake about that...The right time is any time that one is still so lucky as to have.... Live!

Robert Jones Burdette
There are two days in the week about which and upon which I never worry. Two carefree days, kept sacredly free from fear and apprehension. One of these days is Yesterday. And the other day I do not worry about is Tomorrow. It isn't the experience of Today that drives men mad. It is the remorse of what happened Yesterday and fear of what Tomorrow might bring.



Archibald MacLeish
The only thing about a man that is a man is his mind. Everything else you can find in a pig or a horse.


Dean Briggs
Do your work. Not just your work and no more, but a little more for the lavishing's sake. That little more which is worth all the rest. And if you doubt as you must; and if you suffer as you must-- do your work. Put your heart into it and the sky will clear. And then out of your very doubt and suffering will be born the supreme joy of life.

Earl Nightingale
Most people tiptoe through life, hoping to make it safely to death.


Joseph Campbell
The cave you fear to enter holds the treasure you seek.

Bob Proctor
When you talk about you, you can use superlatives all day long and fall short of describing the dynamics of you. . It’s not conceit; it’s awareness.

Andrew Carnegie
Any idea that is held in the mind and emphasized, whether it is feared or revered, will begin at once to clothe itself in the most convenient and appropriate form available.

Epictetus
Circumstances do not make the man, they only reveal him to himself.

Dr. Harold Blake Walker
We live by faith or we do not live at all. Either we venture, or we vegetate. If we venture, we do so by faith, simply because we cannot know the end of anything at its beginning. We risk marriage on faith, or we stay single. We prepare for a profession by faith, or we give up before we start. By faith we move mountains of opposition, or we’re stopped by molehills. Faith, however, is not often tranquil and steady. It ebbs and flows like the tides of the restless sea. Normally, like Browning’s Bishop, we are forever exchanging a life of doubt diversified by faith, for one of faith diversified by doubt.

---------------------------- Quotes from people

// Jordon Peterson Self-esteem Doesn't Exist


// Jordan Peterson: Why You Won't Have a Career

 I want to do a video directed towards
young women because I'd like to tell
them what lies there being taught and
are going to be taught and there's a
couple of lines and the first is the
first lie is you're going to have a
career. 

Okay know a tiny fraction of
people have careers maybe two percent.

Most people have jobs yeah and the
definition of a job is an activity that
you get paid for because you wouldn't do
it voluntarily .

So first of all you're not going to have a career you're
going to have a job second most jobs
aren't very desirable they're not very
meaningful they're not the center place
for your life and even if you have a
career like for example if you go into
law you're going to find that it's very
very demanding and very very difficult
and very very stressful and very very
competitive.

You're not going to find
the fulfillment of your of your desire
for example for intimate
close interpersonal relationships in a
competitive domain like law it's just
not going to happen and if you go and be
a doctor then you're gonna be looking at
60 hour weeks and I so careers or
careers are exceptionally demanding
you're never done you're always working
and jobs are are people pay you to do
jobs because the jobs are difficult and
unpleasant and require responsibility
and if and difficult decisions. 

So that's the first lie the second lie is
that career or job is actually the
fundamental purpose of life and that's
not true the the most important thing in
life is your family your relationship
and your children and you might not know
that when you're 19 because what the
hell do you know when you're 19 

you don't know anything 7 years ago you were
12 you don't know anything yeah and what
you don't understand is that by the time
you're 40 if you don't have a family and
children you are one lost soul because
as you get older you know 

I mean I've
had a very good career and it's still
going just great and I don't expect
to end you know unless someone gets
particularly irritated with me for
another 15 or 20 years but I can tell
you that despite all that despite the
fact that I'm absolute
fascinated by my job and my my career
and and I and I'm in a very fortunate
position because it's an extraordinarily
interesting job 

ever since I had kids
they were the most important thing in my
life and as I get older that just
becomes more and more and more clear and
so Western people Carl Jung commented
about this at one point he thought that
because the the fundamental archetypal
hero of Western culture was Christ and
Christ died when he was in his early 30s
that we really didn't have a good model
for the latter half of life it's a very
interesting kind of idea but why I can't

I can say with with virtual certainty
that if you're not oriented if you're
not situated with the family in the
latter half of your life you're
especially if you also don't have a
partner

you're one lonesome isolated miserable
creature I imagine and you just want
some people like that quite high on me
well and increasingly we're going to
have a society where there's a
tremendous number of isolated old women
who have no one now that's partly
because men die young compared to
women you know but you know you were
talking about this famous feminist who
didn't have children it's like not
having children and you'll wake up when
you're 35 if you're not careful 

if you're female and you'll think oh I
don't have any time left to have kids
and that is not fun that is not a good
realization and then maybe you'll be on
the assisted reproduction carousel for
the next ten years and believe me that's
that's like having a near fatal disease
that is not entertaining for life in
some ways isn't that complicated there

there are fundamental like people think
well what should I do with my life okay
well the first answer to that is do what
other people have always done unless
you're certain that you're exceptional
in some manner and and even if you are
you're probably only exceptional in one
direction not at all so what do you do
well you get as educated as you can so
that you can make yourself useful so
that you have a skill or multiple skills
that other people will pay you validly
for and not only because of that but
because you need to contribute to your
own maintenance

and to the M to the what health and
survival of the broader community okay
so you have to do that get your act
together get yourself a trade or get
educated then you need a job then you
need an intimate partner then you need a
family it's like it if you miss any of
those then you're in trouble

now you might not think so because you
might be cynical about it or prematurely
cynical which is so many young women you
ask them at 19 why do you want to have
children they think oh well I don't
think so it's like you don't know what
you're talking about

yeah and why people have decided that
you should be some sort of authority
about it is is nothing but an index of
how pathological or culture has become
you don't know anything you're a child
you haven't read anything you haven't
accomplished anything
your parents have taken care of you up
to this point and you you can pronounce
on something as profound as how society
should be constructed it's absurd and
it's dangerous for the for the women
because they don't understand where
they're headed and other women lie to
them they don't sit the

nineteen-year-olds down and say look you
know like you should pursue a career
you're smart you've got something to
offer and and society needs your
intelligence but you better look the
hell out because women have complicated
lives and they also have to have a
family and you're gonna struggle like
mad to figure out how to to balance
those two things and nobody's going to
help you.






















