// I think his first long time girlfriend had borderline personality
Although there is a paucity of solid research evidence on the various forms of psychotherapy available for personality disorders, the one notable exception is dialectical behavior therapy (DBT). It’s tremendously helpful in treating borderline personality—a condition characterized by intense, out-of-control emotions, impulsive behaviors, desperate attachments, and an unstable sense of self. But DBT appears promising for several other forms of personality dysfunction, as well.

// Land of the losers
She never fought fair. In her little universe, men and women were equal, but they had to follow different rules. The ladies’ rules, of course, allowed her more perks.

It was a little trick I learned: if you’re not comfortable looking someone in the eye (and I’m not) look at the bridge of their nose; It gives the exact same effect.


// Land of the losers by Mr. Nice guy

At the wedding reception, I overheard a few of my sister’s “friends” talking quietly amongst themselves at the next table. “Why is she marrying him again? She could have done better. He’s a bit funny-looking,” they gossiped. “Have you seen his bank book?” someone piped up snidely, eliciting a chuckle from the group. Ahhh, now it made sense!

My sister’s Nice Guy is exactly the type of man who would give her anything she asked for. All she has to do is snap her fingers, and hubby jumps to attention. I’ve seen this in action, and I really feel sorry for the man; her whim is his errand for the day. If he does something wrong by accident, she berates him mercilessly in her most spine-decalcifying tone. When this happens, I can almost hear his balls shrivelling up and receding into his body cavity. Poor guy. That’s definitely not the kind of husband I ever want to be.

I Can’t Marry My House
If my sister loves her husband, you can be damn sure it’s been made a little bit easier by that big gob of cash he inherited. She was still in medical school when they got married, so hubby bought her books and all the things that medical students usually need to get jobs to pay for. Plus, she got a house in a gated than the one we grew up in, a luxury car, and trips to Europe. Not to mention, enough interest-free loans to start her own medical practice. No sir, not a bad deal at all – she sure is on Easy Street.

Now I’m waiting to see where my sister’s marriage will end up. Just as the spider swallows the fly and the fox devours the hare, I’m wondering if she’ll engage in that quintessentially American activity of self-righteously blowing up her marriage only to skilfully retain the kids, cash, and prizes to ensure that her “happiness” shall continue to come first at all costs.

Me? I have to work for every penny I earn. I can’t just marry my house, and there is no chance I can just fuck my way to Easy Street.community about ten times larger 


Sweet Little Lies

One night, Whorebag and I were lying together in bed. She peered at me with glistening eyes. I could see she was extremely nervous.
“Niceguy, I’ve been meaning to tell you something...”
“Go ahead hon, I’m listening,” I smiled.
She looked away skittishly, but I was patient. I held her and let her know it was safe to tell me what she was feeling. Whorebag always needed a little coaxing when she had a confession.
“Niceguy, I think about you all the time.” She paused. “I think… I love you.”
Holy shit. A waterfall of emotions swept over me. I looked into her eyes. She meant it. She really did love me! I looked right back at her and my voice became really strained.
“I love you, too.”

Fool’s Paradise

From that point forward, Whorebag realized she had a green light to misbehave with impunity. Yes, I was living in a fool’s paradise where she could do no wrong. If something was awry with our relationship, it was only because I had not been sensitive enough to her needs. It was my job to know what she wanted even before she did.

The beautiful field of hidden cluster bombs was spread out before me, begging me to traipse across it, and our engagement would prime the trigger: Whorebag got me to pop the question the old-fashioned way – by threatening to commit suicide if I didn’t propose.


Meeting My First Feminist
 
 
The first time I recall running across a feminist was when I was at summer camp. It was during a three-month period between fourth and fifth grade. The year was 1984 and I was ten.

I remember the summer camp somewhat well. There was a really big raspberry bush behind my cabin. I would occasionally go pick a bunch of berries and gorge myself. And, as is typical of raspberries, the seeds would get lodged between my teeth.

What was I thinking about on this particular day before I met my first feminist? Probably Transformers. Yes, that was undoubtedly one of the best toy series of the 1980s. I was really into the Transformers in those days, as were most kids my age. They were more than meets the eye, after all! The Transformers were cars and planes that changed into fighting robots. Hence the name “Transformers.” Because they transformed, you see. Oh yes. Autobots waged their battle to destroy the evil forces of the Decepticons. And the Decepticons - they were evil. I owned Starscream. In fact, my favorite was Starscream. He was an airplane that turned into a robot. Starscream, the betrayer. The turncoat. The total bastard without redeeming features. Boy, was he evil! Even among the Decepticons, he was evil. Of that you can be certain!
And the actor who did the voice of Starscream (Chris Latta) was rumored to have died of a drug overdose in 1994. Sad, that was. He had the best voice for evil cartoon characters. By sheer coincidence he had been the voice of Cobra Commander, too – an evil character in a totally different cartoon series! That’s how evil he was! All shrill and hissy and scoundrel-like.

Anyway, I digress. It was amazingly hot that day. The sun was beating down upon us, burning off the mist. I remember walking up to a standpipe where I knew a water fountain was attached. I’d been playing dodgeball that day and I needed a drink.

I approached and noticed that there were two girls standing there, talking. One of them was named Loralei. I remember Loralei well. Her last name was one of those scary-looking Austro-Hungarian appellations with lots of Zs in it. Loralei Zumzeigetwastizewicz, or something like that. God only knows!
Loralei and her companion were busily twittering away. My mouth was parched, and she was leaning in such a way that she was obstructing the drinking fountain.

“Um, can I use the fountain?” I asked. She looked at me and sneered.
“Oh, look. It’s one of them!” she snarled. Her voice dripped with a distinct form of non-niceness.
“What?” I asked.
“I heard you on the soccer field! You were talking all kinds of sexist shit with the those other guys, weren’t you?”
I genuinely had no clue what she was talking about. “Those other guys?” I’d just come from playing dodgeball by the lake. I hadn’t been on the soccer field all day. I scratched my head. “I wasn’t on the soccer field,” I said. I then vainly tried to change the subject. “I hope we have s’mores tonight, don’t you?”
“Yeah, right.” she harrumphed, not distracted from her nascent bout of anti-male ranting. “You were with the group of guys who were saying that girls were dumb!” she glowered.
Okay, it was obviously a case of mistaken identity. I shook my head.
“What? Dumb? No, it wasn’t me!”
“Oh, come on!” she persisted. “Why the hell are you guys so sexist?!” she demanded.
I was flabbergasted. Why was she accusing me of saying things I’d never said?
“No, I don’t think it was me!” I folded my arms. “I think men and women are equal.” I proclaimed proudly. That’s what my parents had always taught me, after all.
Her lip curled up, as if I were a foul odor.
“Uh-huh. Riiiight.”
She turned around and placed her thumb on the drinking fountain’s nozzle. She twisted the handle, and a thin stream of water shot out. It sprayed me square in the face.
I jerked back, stunned.
What the hell?
She and her friend both ran off towards the cabins, giggling. I stood there dripping wet. In the distance I 
thought I heard one of them laugh, “Girls rule!”
What. The. Hell?
I stood there, wiping the water from my face. I stepped up and started to drink. One thought echoed through my mind over and over as I drank: What the hell is wrong with them? Indeed! That question hasn’t changed since, either. Almost word for word.
What the hell is wrong with them?

Joining a Gym
 
 
I'm a skinny guy. No, I don’t look like Gandhi after a fast. No, bullies don’t kick sand in my face at the beach. There is no denying, however, that I’m fairly slender.
More than a few women have noticed, and they sometimes take it upon themselves to provide me with “helpful” advice. This usually takes the form of a suggestion that I need more muscles and should therefore work out. My would-be advisers rarely seem to realize how shallow their advice sounds, however.
One time during high school, I was playing tennis with a female student. After the game was over, she looked me up and down.
“You know, you should work out.”
“Really? Why?” I replied.
“Oh, it’s nothing. Never mind.” She waved her hand in the air to dismiss the topic.
Then there was Gabrielle, a girlfriend of mine in grad school. I once asked her if she thought I was attractive. Her reply was very telling.
“Well... you have the potential to be attractive.”
Gee, thanks. I have the “potential” to be attractive. That’s really nice to know. How would she have liked it if she’d asked me about her personality and I’d responded, “Well, you have the potential to not be a bitch.” At least she was being honest, I suppose. Shallow, but honest.


Me vs. Earl

I’d always felt that most men and most women could be attractive in their own ways. Every person has their own unique combination of positive traits, and I’d been brought up to believe that everybody’s inner beauty would somehow shine through like a beacon to the right partner. I was casually disabused of this notion when I started hanging out with a guy from my dorm at college, named Earl.
Earl was kind of a big guy – an ox, actually. He was about a foot and a half taller than me, and weighed about 200 pounds more than me. It wasn’t flab, either. The two of us were on good terms, but he had a tendency to act like a dickwad when he was drunk. He also didn’t seem to have much respect for women. I wasn’t always comfortable hanging out with him, but he did have a car, so he was periodically useful if I ever had to leave campus.
One day we drove to a local supermarket to buy some food. We got out of his car (which I had nicknamed the “extension-of-Earl’s-manhood car”) and walked into the store, talking as we went. A good-looking woman in her early 20’s exited just as we were about to walk in. She saw us, stopped, and then walked up to Earl. She asked him what he was doing the following evening.
“My sorority is throwing a party. It would be so cool if you could come,” she trilled.
“Well, I’m kind of busy, so I can’t make it. Sorry,” Earl replied.

I’d noticed that she’d said “you” singular and not “you” plural. She’d acted as if I didn’t even exist, actually.
After being politely turned down, Miss Sorority Party walked away. It would certainly be nice if women walked up to me and invited me to parties, but it would be even nicer if they could be bothered to acknowledge my existence when I was standing right next to them!

I Don’t Like Pain
At one point in time, I did start going to the gym regularly. This was at the request of my first-ever girlfriend, Tricia. It was my freshman year at college, and she had hinted to me that she might get more turned on when we were together if I was more muscular. So, because I really loved her, I decided that I’d work out. Almost every night, I lifted weights and exercised. In truth, I had no clue what I was doing, which I’m sure hindered my results. Regardless, I hated every second of it.
After a few months, Tricia decided to break up with me because I was out of town all the time. Feeling the fool for having put myself through hell only to be dumped over my choice to go to college, I quit working out, and the miniscule gains I’d made disappeared overnight because I have the metabolism of a racehorse. I was certainly glad not to be constantly sore however, and it baffled me as to why anyone would subject themselves to such torture if they weren’t a masochist.


Going to a Local Health Spa (I don't agree with this)
The last time I thought about signing up at a gym was once again at the request of a girlfriend. This time, I went to a health spa near where I lived and asked about signing up for a membership. The place looked clean, well-appointed, and generally well maintained. It didn’t smell like a gym and I was somewhat impressed. I walked in and waited for a manager to show me around.
After a brief tour, we sat down to discuss the costs. They were absurd. I told the manager I’d “think about it," and walked out. I had no intention of shelling out the kind of money that was better suited to a life insurance policy than a gym contract. I shook my head, thinking of what I’d gone through with Tricia, and the superficiality of it all. Instead, I immediately went to McDonald’s and purchased a bag full of McRib sandwiches; so much better.

Take Our Daughters To Work Day
 
 
As is true for everyone, certain events over the years have taught me important life lessons. Sometimes, particular experiences even taught more than one lesson at the same time. Way back in the spring of ’93, my high school took part in the very first Take Our Daughters To Work Day. This event qualifies as one such instructive occasion.

Take Our Daughters To Work Day was a program organized by the Ms Foundation for Women. That organization was founded by Gloria Steinem and a few other like-minded feminists back in the early ’70s. Its intent was to provide funding to advance causes deemed necessary to the progress of women in society. On the surface, I suppose this seems like an unobjectionable goal.

The idea behind Take Our Daughters To Work Day was that young women needed to have role models out in the workforce to inspire them. They needed to see adults, preferably their own parents or guardians, working at their jobs. This would hopefully start these girls on the process of envisioning their own future careers, instead of hopelessly falling into domestic drudgery under the thumb of some man. This seemed particularly urgent at the time, since, back in the early ’90s, there were a flurry of studies coming out which purported to show that girls suffered a calamitous drop in self-esteem in their teenage years.

I remember reading about those studies in the mainstream press, and I found the narrative to be rather odd. If this claim about young women’s self-esteem was correct, the girls around me should have been acting rather differently. Surely they’d have been moping around aimlessly or generally acting quite glum. Yet, the vast majority of my female classmates didn’t seem to be acting that way at all. A lot of them appeared to be utterly infatuated with themselves. I had no idea where researchers were getting this “low self-esteem” stuff from.

Still, what did I know? If the do-gooder academics said that it was true, then it must have been true. Who was I to question the vaunted social scientists? Who was I to question the received wisdom whose truthfulness was self-evident? If the research showed that girls’ precious, ever-so-frail self-esteem was always deflating like a punctured tire, I had no business standing out from the crowd to dispute such a claim.

At any rate, it was arranged that on that first Take Our Daughters To Work Day, the girls would get a day off from school to see their role models in action in the workplace. The boys however, apparently did not need role models as our self-esteem was deemed to be just fine. No one ever actually approached us to inquire about that, of course.

The day arrived and I went to school as normal, but something about the place didn’t feel right. Half of the students were gone, and things were visibly different. I hadn’t chosen to go to an all-boys school and now the campus looked like one.

In first period I sat at my desk in the half-empty classroom and looked around, seeing numerous empty spaces as the other boys filed in. Nothing about the situation seemed quite right.
Isn’t This Sexist?
There was an important concept that I had learned about during my early years of schooling: “Sexism.” To me, that word meant unfair, discriminatory treatment based upon one’s sex, and I had been told it was normally inflicted upon women.

I turned the current situation over in my mind. The girls were off having a great time. The boys were stuck in class. This was favoritism, I concluded – some kind of sex-based favoritism. Could this be… sexism? If that was so, why had nobody said anything? The splinter in my mind was starting to cause me serious discomfort.

I raised my hand.
“Yes?” my teacher asked.
“Isn’t this sexist?” I suggested a bit forcefully, gesturing around the room with my hand.
As I asked the question, every other boy in the room suddenly looked up. It was as if I’d fired a pistol into the air.
“Yeah!” about four or five voices exclaimed. “That’s right!” someone else said. Another boy’s fist pounded his desk.
My teacher looked at me and then at the rest of his now all-male class. His reply was something I’ll never forget.
“Yes it is. Shut up.”

A murmur spread through the room, and the atmosphere became a little uncomfortable. I felt as if we’d learned the awful truth but weren’t supposed to say anything about it. If we’d been allowed to continue talking, who knows what else we might have concluded?


The Fairer Sex

My classmates and I might seem a bit slow to you, but I think part of the problem is that boys are not typically taught to use the word “sexism” to describe the bad things that happen to them; it’s taught as something that happens exclusively to women. Boys are instead encouraged to think about overcoming the obstacles they encounter, no matter how unfair the situation may be. On the other hand, they are heavily encouraged to act upon anything which impacts women negatively.

A few months after that day at school, I received a document in the mail: I had to sign up for Selective Service. If I did not register for a potential military draft, I would be penalized. I would be ineligible to receive federal student loans, ineligible for federally-funded job training, and for work in the federal government.

My sister, who was an able-bodied woman, was not required to sign up for Selective Service at all. An 18-year-old male in a wheelchair, however, would be required to sign up. That made zero sense to me. When I got that letter, my sister pointed and laughed at me, jeering that I’d be packed off to Bosnia or the Middle East or some other shithole to get my ass shot off. She was a very warm and caring sibling.

The Selective Service requirement is another obnoxious example of naked sexism against men, sanctioned by the government and by society. It’s a clear example of “institutionalized sexism” that feminists claim to care so much about, but at that time, no one even called it “sexism.” It was just something that guys needed to do, or else. Funnily enough, the feminists’ legendary brand of righteous, fiery, fist-pounding indignation is rather scarce when it comes to Selective Service. I wonder why?

As an aside, some people like to bend over backwards to conjure up goofy definitions of “sexism” such that it cannot be used to describe gender-based discrimination directed against men. This tactic is so transparently phony that it’s clear the people in question simply want all the attention for themselves, and acknowledging that others have problems worth addressing might cause them a narcissistic injury.

The Selective Service requirement is another obnoxious example of naked sexism against men, sanctioned by the government and by society. It’s a clear example of “institutionalized sexism” that feminists claim to care so much about, but at that time, no one even called it “sexism.” It was just something that guys needed to do, or else. Funnily enough, the feminists’ legendary brand of righteous, fiery, fist-pounding indignation is rather scarce when it comes to Selective Service. I wonder why?

As an aside, some people like to bend over backwards to conjure up goofy definitions of “sexism” such that it cannot be used to describe gender-based discrimination directed against men. This tactic is so transparently phony that it’s clear the people in question simply want all the attention for themselves, and acknowledging that others have problems worth addressing might cause them a narcissistic injury.


I would say that I was raised according to fairly feminist values. My mom went to college in the late ’60s and I wouldn’t exactly call her a traditionalist. I have always believed that men and women should be equal before the law, and that they deserve equal opportunities, equal pay, and equal responsibilities. My experience with blatant sex-based favoritism on that first “Take Our Daughters To Work Day” however, showed me the essence of feminism as it is practiced in reality: girls get a special junket while the boys continue soldiering on as normal. Girls get a day off and boys get toilet duty. And if you notice that the Empress is naked you need to shut your god damned face.

Ugh, I know this trick. The casual use of “my boyfriend” might just be to tell me not to get too close. Or is her boyfriend actually real? I hate those little games that women play.
That reminds me of another story. Some years ago, my friend Roger and I were sitting in a Perkin’s late one night. We were talking about little mind games. Specifically, casual usage of “my boyfriend” (our waitress that night was hot, by the way).
“Roger, do you ever notice that sometimes women will say “my boyfriend blah blah blah,” even when you strongly suspect they don’t really have a boyfriend?”
He nodded then sipped his coffee. “It’s a self-defense mechanism. Essentially, they’re saying ‘don’t even try. As far as you’re concerned, I’m taken.’ Sometimes they fire it right away, sometimes they don’t deploy it until, like three or four hours into the conversation. Mighty tricky if you ask me. By the way, our waitress is hot.”
A minute later, the waitress came by with our plates. Roger struck up a conversation.
“So, Miss, do you always work so late?”
She put down our plates and shook her head. “No, my boyfriend doesn’t like it when I work the late shift...” Immediately, Roger and I burst out laughing.


Why I Will Never Loan Money to Another Woman
 
 
This is the story of why I’ve developed a “never loan women money” policy; it’s also evolved into a “never loan money outside the family” policy as well.

I once loaned a previous girlfriend (Mi-Jun) money and it took her more than six months to pay it back. I was a student at the time and so was she. I had to pay for rent and tuition, so I couldn’t afford to throw that money out the window. It took a fair amount of pressure to get repayment, but thankfully I eventually recovered it.

I guess I don’t like to have people tell me that they’ll pay me back and then not pay me back. It makes me feel betrayed. I’d much rather a person was up front with me. If they said, “Niceguy, I’m desperately short of money, and there’s absolutely no guarantee that I can ever pay you back,” I’d probably take pity on the person and try to help them out in some way. If they say, “oh sure, I’ll get the money back to you,” and then skip town to avoid paying me, of course it would make me a lot more angry than if they were truthful right from the beginning. I don’t think I’m very different from most people in this regard.

So, as I’ve said before, I’ve been called a really Nice Guy. I had a stable high-paying job at the time. Nice + stable job could have been considered my biggest weakness because weaseling female freeloaders would sometimes start to think that they could take advantage of me.


Shirley Moocher

My friend Miriam has a friend I like to call Shirley Moocher. I met her through Miriam and I’ve come to know her because she and I have hung out a bit. Shirley... geesh... you know, I try to be charitable in my judgments of people... but I’ll be honest; she acts like a total simpleton. She’s one woman who I can say is honestly not oppressed by society, but consistently acts so dumb that she fucks herself over time and time again. I’ll use a word I hate using: “bimbo.”

When I first met Shirley, I was attracted to her on a purely physical level. But then something happened... I actually got to know her and understand what she was like. That sure cured my attraction in a hurry. Now I only talk to her to be polite and prefer to keep her at arms’ length. She does have a killer body though, and I love the way she dresses. What can I say? I love a glimpse of nice cleavage. Sadly though, a pair of boobs is pretty much all that she is.

She used to be somewhat chubby, but then she lost a lot of weight (I think it mostly went straight to her breasts), so now she simply loves to show off. Either she’s oblivious to men’s reactions to her body, or she pretends to be oblivious. Or perhaps she doesn’t mind it when men look at her body, or she just doesn’t notice it. I’m not saying that women with large breasts are necessarily dumb, I’m just saying that this particular woman with big breasts acts dumb. In fact, I think acting dumb helps her out in a perverse way. It allows her to be passive-aggressive without arousing suspicion. But her body can’t compensate for the wreck that she really is and the garbage fire that she turned her life into.

Why is She a Wreck?

First of all, Shirley does not know how to manage her own life. She’s a total flake. For example, she does not know how to, say, concentrate on schoolwork. She’s been in community college off and on for the last ten years and still isn’t any closer to a degree. Additionally, she has no clue how to make a budget or keep her checkbook straight. Sometimes, I feel like saying, “Knock. Knock. Knock. McFly?? Hello, McFly?! Anyone home in there?!”

Secondly, she strictly dates guys who are bad news. And she doesn’t like me in “that way” (thank God). When I was first getting to know her, I asked her once why she wouldn’t consider dating me. She said that it was because I’m too “sweet and feminine” and she thinks of me as a brother. Gee, thanks. I’ve asked her several times to set me up with one of her female friends, but she says all her female friends are married or already have boyfriends, so she’s been zero help on that front. In fact, when she had a bit too much to drink one night, she even said that if I really want to attract women, I should move to a country where they’ll appreciate guys like me. Ouch. At least she was being honest, which is more than I can say for her when she’s sober.

She really prefers men who are the opposite of me. In fact, some of her friends ended up being so disgusted by her dating habits that they threatened to not talk to her again if she continued to date guys who were bad news. But every now and then, she’ll tell me how she wants to go out with some boneheaded guy or another, but if her friends find out, they won’t talk to her again. She trusts telling me, though – again, because I’m “sweet.” Sometimes you just want to whack her ’round the head two or three times with a pillowcase full of tangerines in order to pound a little sense into her... not that I condone violence.

Thirdly, Shirley knows I’m somewhat altruistic and that I’m fairly reliable. That’s something that she can take advantage of. In insurance, they have this concept called a “moral hazard.” A moral hazard is the idea that insured people might start to behave more recklessly. If someone else is going to clean up after your mistakes, then why should you be careful? I always seemed to come through for her when she was in a jam, so why should she try to avoid getting into jams in the first place? She’d gotten into the habit of depending on me because she knew I was dependable.

The Road to Hell is Paved with Good Intentions

One time, when I was first starting to get to know her, she and I went out clubbing with Miriam and Dan, and I was hoping that she might want to date a Nice Guy for a change. We went to this club downtown and I really wanted to get her to like me. She and I went up to the bar together, and I handed the bartender my credit card to start a tab.

I pointed to Shirley then said to the bartender, “Give this lady anything she wants tonight, on me.” Her face made a happy-surprised expression.
“Thanks! You’re so sweet!” She gave me a quick hug and put her head on my shoulder for a second or two.
I wanted to make a good impression. In hindsight, perhaps I shouldn’t have done that.
Niceguy is a Jackass. Why Not Ask Him for Money?
This conversation took place on the phone a mere three months after I first met Shirley Moocher. It was about 7:00 PM. I was relaxing at home.
“Hi... Niceguy?”

“’Allo. What-up?” Can you imagine me in my red smoking jacket, wearing a monocle and holding a brandy snifter in my palm? That must be how Shirley imagines me – overstuffed with filthy money, just dying to lavish it on some needy damsel like her.
“Oh... just wanted to call and say hi... um... and I wanted to ask you a favor?”
“It depends, what is it?” I lit up a Cuban cigar with a flaming $100 bill, and blew a ring of bluish smoke out into my billiard room as I spoke.
“Well, my mom has this big credit card bill coming up, and she’s a little short on paying it – and I wanted to loan her some money, but I don’t have any to spare. I really want to help her, so I was wondering...”
I could tell exactly where this was going. Call me “Daddy Warbucks” while you’re at it, sweetheart. I opened a tin of black Ossetra caviar and began to smear it on toast points with a gold spoon.
“Well, Shirley, I’m afraid I don’t know your mom.” With my free hand I swirled the brandy around the snifter.
“Oh, you’d be making the loan to me. I’ll pay you back,” she said.
“I don’t know...” I was not convinced. Standish, my butler, quietly asked me if he should start polishing the silver in the ballroom for the annual Rotary Club Cotillion which was to be held on Friday. I nodded to Standish and he bowed before exiting the room. I looked out the window and noticed the caterers had started setting up the large tent in the center of the hedge maze for the guest reception.
“Pleeeeeeeease! I really want to help my mom,” she pleaded.
“I’m afraid that I wouldn’t be comfortable doing that. You see, I have this auto insurance premium that I’ve paid and if I make a withdrawal over the next week, the check will bounce. Anyway, I apologize.” I hung up and breathed a sigh of relief.

I’d extricated myself by telling a white lie. I’d only known her for three months and she was already asking me for a loan? Jesus. I mean, she wanted to help her mom, so she shifted the burden of helping her onto me? In hindsight, I’m glad I didn’t give her any money on that occasion. If I’d done that I’d still be waiting for repayment up until today.


Paul Encourages Her
About three weeks after this, Dan, Miriam, Shirley and I went out to the local mall to catch a movie and do some shopping. We met up with some of Dan’s friends; three guys whom I’d never met before. Miriam and Shirley went off to try on clothes in The Limited. We five guys were milling around outside. We waited and waited. I looked at my watch.
“Hey, I thought we were planning to go the theaters soon?” I said to Dan.
“Yeah. Let’s go in and ask them how much longer they’ll take.”
Dan, Paul (one of the three guys I’d never met before that point), and I walked into the store. Miriam was browsing through a rack of dresses, while Shirley was trying on something new and checking herself out in the mirror. She was wearing a ribbed, blue cotton turtleneck shirt that was so tight, it looked painted on. Her pair of perky attention-getters were proudly standing out in front.
“Holy fucking shit,” whispered Paul. He took the words right out of my mouth. He walked up to Shirley.
“Hi, are you thinking of getting that?”
She nodded. “I think it’s a little tight. Makes me look fat. And I don’t have much money besides.”
“No way, you look great. I heard it’ll be your birthday soon. Let me get that for you as a present!”
I sighed. Yup, I’m not the only one.

Hi, Would You Like to Make a Donation?

Shirley called me about six months later, and guess what? It was a plea for more money.
“Hi, Niceguy?”

“’Allo, what-up?”
“Well, I just wanted to know if you could do me a really big favor?”
“Depends...” It’s not related to how your personal finances have been destroyed by the fact that you spend money like an idiot, is it?
“Well, I’ve just arranged to move into my apartment, and I’ve used all the money in my checking account for my security deposit.”
This sounded like a money-related inquiry. Would I like to make a generous donation to the Shirley Moocher Foundation?
“And...?” Spit it out, woman. How much?
“Well, can you loan me $500 so I can cover my expenses in the meantime? I’ll pay you back next month.”
“I don’t know... I mean, I...”
“Please! It’ll help me a lot, and... I’ll tell you what? I’ll write a check for you and you can deposit it next month. Okay?”

Well, Shirley was usually kind to me and her mooching had not yet become incessant at that time. And, plus, I’m hoping she might even consider dumping her asshole boyfriend for me (I know, I know). Okay, $500? I could afford it. Why not?
I wrote the check, and she picked it up the next day. She trilled with gratitude and hugged me.

“Oh thank you! You’re so nice!” Yeah, yeah. Just pay me back. She wrote me a check with next month’s date on it. “Now, you can deposit this next month. So, you can relax. I’ll be paying you back all right.” Well, I went out on a limb and trusted her. Why not? I’m a Nice Guy. And women with huge knockers never lie.
Silly Silly Me

Exactly one month later I walked up to an ATM, punched in my secret pass code, and slipped the check into the slot. The next week I got a letter – I’d been charged three dollars because the check bounced. Ugh, why am I not surprised by this?
I called Shirley.

“Hey, your check bounced.” I grumbled.
“Really? I didn’t know... uh... I’ve had a lot of bills this month... more than I thought, I guess. I had to get some furniture.”
I rolled my eyes.
“I don’t care what the problem is on your end. I was really hoping to be paid back by now.” I started to sound really irritated. It was not the money I was irritated at. It was the fact that she was not honoring her end of the agreement.
“Look, I’ll pay you back when I get some cash freed up. Okay? I promise.”
“You promised me last month that I’d get paid back this month. You’ve already broken your promise. Why should I believe your new promise?”
“Please believe me! It’s not like I’m not going to pay you back!” She was adamant.
“Oh, but that’s what happened, you didn’t pay me back. That’s why your check was worthless.”
“But I tried!”
“No. Do or do not. There is no ‘try,’ got it? You didn’t pay me back.” Do you understand the noises that are coming out of the flapping hole on the front of my head? But she swore up and down that she’d pay me back when she got some spare cash.

Three Months Later

I wasn’t paid back. In fact, I had even helped her do her taxes, hoping that might somehow encourage her to pay me back. Nope, wrong again. Whenever I brought up the subject, Shirley acted a little offended that I’d dare to do such a thing.

“You know, Niceguy, I thought you were my friend! Friends don’t distrust one another the way you distrust me. I’m very disappointed in you.” She would retort rather piously. How convenient.
“Well, what about your tax refund?” I asked. “It’s June, and it should have come in by now.”
“It hasn’t come in yet.”
“I don’t believe you. Everyone in the country has gotten their refund by now. Why haven’t you?”
“I’m telling you the truth! I’ve called the IRS and asked them about it. I can’t get any information out of them.”
I didn’t believe her because the IRS knows that taxpayers get very, very angry when they don’t get their refunds. She might have been telling the truth, but I just didn’t believe her. Still, I felt bad for being accused of being a bad friend, so I didn’t bring the topic up very often. Ugh.


Another Three Months Later
One night, Miriam and Dan invited me out to go clubbing. Shirley tagged along. I was irritated with her, but I didn’t mention her debt to me because I didn’t want to be a jerk and ruin the evening. Besides, she was wearing this red dress that made her body look truly ex-traw-din-ree!

I was at the bar trying to get a drink. The bartender had a big crowd of people waiting, and I’d been standing there for at least five or ten minutes. I was waving a $10 bill to get his attention. Shirley walked up to the bar and got to order a margarita while I was still waiting for service. Hell, why wouldn’t the bartender serve me? I’d been standing there longer than Shirley. She just walked right up with her boobs falling out the top of her dress, and the bartender immediately served her. Do I need to fire off a starting pistol or grow a pair of tits to get some attention?

Shirley checked her purse. “Oops, I think I left my wallet at home... Niceguy? Sorry. I hate it when I do this to you...”

For God’s sake! I was furious as I put a $10 bill into her hand, but I didn’t show it. Seriously, I needed to do something about this. Me asking politely to be paid back hadn’t worked. It was then that I decided to start playing hardball.


Time for the Heavy Artillery

Two days later, I went jogging in the park with Miriam and Dan. I almost never jog, so this was an unusual thing for me to do. I normally don’t jog because I’m too lazy. I admit it. Lazy.

Dan doesn’t like Shirley very much, because... well... Dan thinks Shirley’s a simpleton who doesn’t know how to handle money. Funny that he reached that conclusion independent of me. I knew I could play to his biases.
I started talking to Dan as we jogged. Miriam was rollerblading about ten feet ahead, so she could hear me too.
“So, I’m thinking of taking Shirley to small claims court,” I said, a little louder than normal.
“How does that work?” Dan asked.

“Well, I have all the documents that show I’ve transferred a total of $500 to Shirley. And Miriam can be my witness if I need one. Basically, I go to the court, lodge a complaint, and they send Shirley an order to appear in court. I’m going to sue her for the amount I gave her. No more, no less.”

“You’ve got to do what you’ve got to do.” Dan said. “I mean, you’ve given her plenty of time to pay you back, and she hasn’t.”
Miriam slowed down a bit for us to catch up.

“I think Shirley has been lying to you about how she can’t pay you back. She went shopping the other day. But if you take her to court, she’ll get really mad at you. I don’t think she’ll talk to you again.”

“I can live with that. It’s nothing personal, just business. I can’t wait any longer because my company is about to lay me off and the job market is flooded with unemployed people. I need the money back soon – that’s one month’s worth of rent that I’ve given her.”

That was, of course, a bluff. I really hated the idea of litigating. I just wanted the message to get back to Shirley that I could unleash some legal hurt on her. I was positive Miriam would say something about it the next time she saw Shirley.
That night, I got a phone call from Miriam.
“Hi, I just wanted to call you to say that I think you’re right to be upset at Shirley. I think you should get tough with her.”

“Well, I intend to. I’m going to file a claim in court tomorrow. I know she owes you money, too. Perhaps you’d like to file a joint lawsuit?” She didn’t go for that idea, but she really believed that I was going to do it.

The Next Day
I got a phone call. It was Shirley. She sounded sheepish.
“Hi... um... Niceguy?”
“Yeeeessssss?” I said it like Frank Nelson on The Jack Benny Show.

“I’d like to start paying you back the money I owe you... I mean, I don’t have very much, so I was thinking that I could give you $50 out of my paycheck every two weeks. Is that okay?”

“You get your paycheck every two weeks... so that’ll be twenty weeks before you pay me the full $500. I’m afraid that’s a little slow for my liking...”

“Well, I wish I could pay you back, but as I said, I don’t really have a lot of money to give you. If I could, I would.”

“Oh, indeed, I know you would if you could. What with all the loans and the tax advising and the other stuff that I’ve given you...” I sighed. Well, her offer was better than nothing. “Fine. If you could give me fifty dollars every two weeks, that would be okay. I understand that you have bills to pay.”

“I can’t say how sorry I am, and I wanted to thank you for being so patient. You know, if you were to take me to court or something, I’d be really really pissed at you.”
I chuckled. “Oh Shirley, I would never do anything so vindictive as take you to court.” I grinned evilly.

Over a six-week period, I got $150 back. Then, there was a two-month period during which she stopped making payments. She had unexpected expenses to take care of, of course. Car repairs, medical bills. She couldn’t afford to give me anything. And her tax refund still hadn’t come in, supposedly. I don’t think I’ll be doing her taxes again.

What did she give me? Apologies. Lots of them. She was sorry that she couldn’t pay me back. She said that I’d always been so good to her, and I’d always helped her out, and that she was feeling bad that she couldn’t do anything to help me. Bleah. Maybe I should have grabbed her by her ankles, held her upside down, and shaken the change out of her pockets?

No, Really. Never Loan Money

Anyway, this experience taught me a valuable lesson: never loan money outside the family, especially not to a woman and definitely not to a bimbo. Hell, in fact, never even start off being generous to a bimbo, because as time goes on, she might try to weasel every freebie she can from you, and it just ain’t worth it. No matter how great she looks in a sweater.

*****************
For the longest time, I did not know whether it was okay to go to a strip club. My ex-fiancée however, upheld a very obvious double standard about it.
She was actually pretty sexist, but she’d never admit to it because she, like many American women, had a twisted, dishonest and opportunistic definition of what the word “sexism” means. That term can not be allowed to cut both ways because it would implicate too many hypocritical women.

One time, my ex was invited to go out to a strip club with her girlfriends to see some male dancers. She was all excited about going and she invited my (gay) brother to go with her.
“Sure,” he said. “I’ll go... provided that you give Niceguy the same liberty.” My brother, by the way, is a really cool guy. He’s one of my best friends.
“What do you mean?” Whorebag asked.

“He means,” I chimed in (grinning because my brother would soon have her over a barrel. She would never allow me go to a strip club), “that he’ll go to the show with you, if you’ll let me go look at female dancers.” I didn’t actually want to go, I just wanted to hear Whorebag admit that she was a sexist hypocrite. That, and I would rather not have some steroid-popping stud gyrating in her lap if I could prevent it.
“No!” she snarled. “It’s not the same.”
“Why?” I asked. “Because I’m a man?”

“Yes! Guys get turned on by it more. Women don’t get turned on as much. Therefore, I won’t get as much out of it as you.”

Oh lah-dee-freaking-dah! Nice little way to wheedle out of a trap; claim that your biology gives you a disadvantage, so you can tilt the playing field in your favor. She never fought fair. In her little universe, men and women were equal, but they had to follow different rules. The ladies’ rules, of course, allowed her more perks.

“Let me get this straight.” I shook my head, unable to believe that she didn’t grasp the double standard. Her authoritarian hypocrisy was oozing out of every pore. I wondered if she’d realize it if I rubbed her face in it? “You can go watch male dancers, but I can’t watch female dancers?”

“Yes. It’s different for women.” She didn’t even blink. She really believed what she was saying. She did not see any kind of contradiction, but that kind of brainless idiocy was par for the course with her.
My brother laughed. “Come on!”

“It’s true!” she said. “Women don’t get turned on by it, so it doesn’t mean anything. Guys really get horny from it, and I don’t want Niceguy getting off on other women.”
“Bullshit!” my brother laughed. “Women get turned on by it too! Why else would you go?!”
“No we don’t! We’re not as visually stimulated as guys!”

“Whorebag...” My brother looked her dead in the eye, and clucked his tongue. “You can’t pull that bullshit on me! Look who you’re talking to! I just think about a male stripper, and I get a stiffie.” I winced at the mental image, but it got his point across.
“Well, you’re a guy too,” was Whorebag’s only comeback. 

Her argument was out of steam. She ended up not going to the show. And you know what? If my brother hadn’t been around to hammer her argument into the ground, she’d have gone regardless of what I thought. Niceguy was never allowed to win arguments with her. Furthermore, if she’d gone, she wouldn’t have had any money because she didn’t work. I would have been giving her the money so that she could stuff it down some other guy’s G-string. That would have sucked.
What a sexist sow.
So, this brings me back to the original question: can I go watch strippers without being a pig? I just don’t know. How would I behave in a strip joint? I’ll come back to this one later, so you’ll just have to keep reading to find out!
************************************************


Turned Down Again
 
 
I was sitting in my favorite bookstore, in “my” spot, drinking a latté and reading a small pile of books. Then, I got distracted. Out of the corner of my eye, I noticed something that didn’t belong there. When I looked over, I saw what had to be the most outwardly erotic woman I’d seen in months! I was stunned. She dressed like that in public? I liked it!

She looked as if she was in her early 20s, and straight out of a wet dream. Perhaps she was a Latina? A mix of something? I couldn’t tell and I never got a chance to ask. She had gorgeous coffee-cream skin and black hair in pigtails. She wore a tight-fitting white T-shirt and a short plaid dress with white knee socks. She also had one of those teeny knapsack purses that gets suspended in the small of a woman’s back. She looked like a combination of a Catholic schoolgirl and one of the women you’d see painted on the side of a B-29 bomber. All she needed was a lollipop and the whole Lolita look would’ve been complete. Now I know what Nabokov was thinking, the dirty bastard.
Okay, I’m a coward in the face of such a gorgeous creature, but I could not just sit there without at least trying to say hello. I sat there for a moment and wondered how I was going to pull this off. I was not going to use a cheesy pick up line. Women hate those. Hey, maybe I’d just try to go up and talk to her? Yeah, that’s what I’ll do. Women always tell me “if you see her, just go up and talk to her!”


I gathered all of my courage, swallowed hard, and walked over to her. She was scanning a bookshelf.
“Hi,” I said.
Now, I know I didn’t look my best. I had a new shirt, but I hadn’t shaved that day. In one hand, I was holding a biography of Nelson Mandela, the other held my coffee. She turned around and studied me with an amused smirk. Her eyes were huge, like the eyes in Japanese cartoons. I swear a big bead of anime-style sweat must have slid down my forehead.
“I don’t mean to bug you, but I just had to come over and say hello. I’m Niceguy.” I held out my hand and she shook it.
“Hi.” She smiled and it was like being given a million bucks. Her eyes were bright... glistening in fact. “I’m Esther.” Just looking at her face made me want to smile. I maintained eye contact with her. It was a little trick I learned: if you’re not comfortable looking someone in the eye (and I’m not) look at the bridge of their nose; It gives the exact same effect.
I stared at the bridge of her nose. I wanted to keep the tempo of the conversation going before I turned chicken and ran away. “I didn’t mean to bother you. I’ve never seen you in this store and I’m here, like, all the time. Is this your first time?”
She nodded. “Yes, I’m not from around here.”
Oh, that’s a good conversation-starting topic! “Where are you from?”


“Northern California.”
“Eureka?”
“No, closer to San Francisco.”
“Oh, I’ve been to the Sierra Nevada mountains recently, it’s nice scenery up there...” I paused and she just looked at me as if I was supposed to keep the conversation going. “So, why are you in town?”
“Well, I’m here for an academic event. A conference on liturgical studies.” My, she sounded bright. I didn’t even know what that was, and I know a lot.
“Oh, I don’t know what to say. What’s that?”
She gave me a brief overview of liturgical studies. I was impressed. This woman was obviously very intelligent. But I noticed that she hadn’t asked me any questions so far. I wasn’t sure what to say. By now, my conversation had run out of steam because she wasn’t engaging me. I was about to offer to show her around town, but she interrupted me just before I opened my mouth.
“Well, nice meeting you,” she said pointedly. I got the hint. Very well, I won’t force you to talk to me.

“Um... you, too. I’ll let you go back to browsing.” I was inwardly disappointed. Not merely disappointed, but very disappointed. I’d expected as much, though. Pessimists can’t be disappointed as easily. Just going up to her was an act of random optimism (hey if lightning can hit my apartment building, as it had the week before, then maybe she’d like to talk to me?) But realistically, I couldn’t expect her to show interest in me, a mere mortal. Some mere person. I walked away and bit my fist. Maybe I gave up too quickly?
Ugh. Still, while I was not going to force her to talk to me, I will tell you one thing: at least she acted as if she didn’t have contempt for a bug like me. From my point of view, that was an accomplishment.
I’m sure she must get hit on a lot. Well, dressing like that, you’re definitely going to get hit on. I’ll be honest, her mind wasn’t the first thing I looked at. I am, however, the kind of guy who’d appreciate her mind. If she’d been a bimbo, I’d probably have had zero interest. I want to get to know a woman before I’ll sleep with her. What did I learn that day, however? She’s not interested in you, Niceguy. Don’t bother talking. Don’t even think it.


Captain FreeTherapist: A Hero for Our Times
 
 
Yes, when women call me late at night crying their eyes out, I turn into (dun-da-da-DUN!) Captain FreeTherapist! *HUZZAH!* The shoulder to cry on, the provider of tissues, the soother of feelings. I offer emotional support and try to help women pull themselves together after they’ve just had a tough fight with their asshole boyfriend. That’s what I do. Hal Jordan never asked to be the Green Lantern. Peter Parker never asked to be Spider-Man. And Niceguy never asked to be Captain FreeTherapist. It just sort of happened.
I was 18 the first time that I was really drafted into this role. I was a freshman in college, and there was this half-Mexican student who I thought was just wonderful: Juanita. She wasn’t drop-dead gorgeous, but I considered her to be about a solid 7.5 in my book. She got hit on by quite a few of the rugby players. (She found rugby players to be kind of sexy, she admitted to me. They’re so “big and strong... They make me feel small. I like that.”)
Juanita was smart. Her dad was a surgeon, and she wanted to go to medical school too. In fact, her boyfriend was already enrolled at a distant medical school. Oh, that’s right – she had a boyfriend. I could tell she wasn’t too happy with the relationship. They’d been separated for months and she felt that his friends were a bad influence on him (encouraging him to go drinking and such).


Like a moron, I thought that maybe if I became friends with her, I could be introduced to one of her girlfriends? Or better yet, perhaps if she decided to break up with her boyfriend, maybe she’d consider... me? I wasn’t going to aggressively push myself onto her, but we had dinner in the college cafeteria together quite often. Juanita was a very cool young woman, and I was perfectly content with being friends, but I would have gladly dated her if she’d given me the chance.

One night, she gave me a call. “Um... Niceguy?” Her voice sounded very strained. “Can you bring some soda over to my dorm? I...*sigh* need to talk to someone.”
So, I dutifully came over with some Coke. I walked into her room and she was all red-eyed. She’d been crying.
“What’s wrong?” I asked.
She sat down and looked just awful. That much was obvious. Her heart seemed to be in the throes of a full-scale Chernobyl meltdown.

“My boyfriend. I just found out from one of his friends that he’s been cheating on me. He’s been sleeping with some slut at his med school.” She shook her head, unable to speak. The words were just too painful for her to say. She looked at me, and her eyes misted up. Her lips trembled.

She collapsed right into my arms and started sobbing really loudly.
“Oh, NICEGUY! I loved him SO MUCH! Why did he do this to me?!” She hollered into my chest.
I put on my mask and cape... (dun-da-da-DUN!) Captain 

FreeTherapist wrapped his arms around her and held her as she cried and cried.
“Hon, let it all out. Cry as hard as you want.”
“I gave him my virginity! I wanted to be his one and only! How could he?! HOW COULD HE?!” She weakly pounded her fists on my chest. Captain FreeTherapist spent a few hours with her, consoling her.

I held her tight and let her cry all she wanted. She cried until she didn’t have any tears left in her. I rocked her until she was too tired to say anything more. I explained that, yes, he was a jerk and she didn’t deserve this treatment. It wasn’t her fault. I felt her heart beating up against mine.

Her heart was destroyed. I don’t like it when my friends get hurt so badly. For the next few days, she’d talk about how sad she was. About how hurt and confused she was. Every now and then, she’d get really angry and poke her finger into my chest as she ranted about this slut and how her boyfriend had to have been influenced by evil people to cheat on her. I really felt sorry for her, because she was a wonderful girl. I told her that she was wonderful, and she deserved better treatment.

She told me about her first sexual experience with her boyfriend; about how they made love. About how the morning after, fresh snow had fallen and covered the landscape. She said it looked like everything was covered in powdered sugar, like in a fairy tale. She felt like the most special woman in the world. Her first lovemaking experience was so wonderful that the memory of it made her weep.

I really wished that I could give a woman a wonderful experience like that.
A Few Days Later
A few days later, I received another phone call. It was Juanita.
“Hi, how do you feel?”
“Well...” She sounded a bit nervous. “I was at a party last night...”
“Oh, that’s good. Did you have fun?”
“Um... afterwards, I kind of... spent the night with Mike.”

“Wha- Mike?!” I knew of him. He was a guy who’d flirted with Juanita repeatedly in the past. He was a huge rugby-playing ox. A ham-fisted, brawling goon. A total slob with no manners. Devoid of brains. Vacant of class. I was a little stunned. “Why did you do that?”

“I don’t know! I... guess I wanted to get back at my boyfriend! I was so mad at him, it was the only thing I could do!”

Okay... sooo... she was going to get revenge on her jerk ex-boyfriend by sleeping with some other jerk? That made no sense. It must have been really fun for the other jerk, though.

Captain FreeTherapist calmly said, “Juanita, honey, you’re feeling very confused and hurt right now. Maybe this isn’t a good idea.”
“I don’t know... I... I think I kind of like Mike, and I think he’s really interested in me...”

I slapped my hand against my forehead.

So with that, Juanita started dating Mike. I advised her not to, simply because I knew he wouldn’t treat her right. From that day forward, I saw her less and less because she was wrapped up with Mike for a few months. Then, after Mike, she started seeing some other rugby guy. Captain FreeTherapist can give the best advice in the world, but it don’t make a lick of difference if Juanita decides to do her own thing. You can lead a horse to water, but you can’t make her drink. How about this advice: “Get thee to a nunnery!”

Every now and then, I’d bump into her between classes and we’d have short verbal exchanges. One time, she asked me: “So, are you dating anyone?”

“Me?” I got a little nervous. “No. It’s... not easy for me to meet women.” I stammered.
“I don’t see why. You’re so nice!” Well, there’s your answer babe. Unthinkingly, she continued. “What kind of woman wouldn’t want to go out with you?” she trilled.
Oh, I don’t know... Maybe you, perhaps?! GAWD!

On Strike

I can only take the same scenario playing out over and over again a certain number of times. Some people refuse to learn from experience, so Captain FreeTherapist is now on strike. No more will I allow a woman to cry on my shoulder, sobbing, “Oh, why can’t Mister Asshole treat me just like you do? I want someone who will treat me like you will, only he’ll be someone I can have sex with in the shower, against the cupboards and on the kitchen table. Let me tell you in detail all about the sex you’ll never have with me because you’re not Mister Asshole.” In response, Captain FreeTherapist will shove her away and say, “Go to hell and burn with the rapists, idol-worshippers and simoniacal* Popes!” And then, he might poke her in the eye with a pointed stick or something.
(* Simony – The sin of giving ecclesiastical promotions or pardons in exchange for bribes.)


Wednesday Rolls Around
This time, we met at a Mongolian barbecue (yum!). We sat down with our plates and started talking. We talked about religion, mainly – her family’s Hindu practices and my parents’ allegiance to the Protestant faith. I talked about various turning points in the development of Christian history. She taught me some sign language. It felt nice to have an intelligent conversation. She was a little chatterbox, in fact.
The restaurant we went to was next door to the mall where she worked, so she’d come straight from work. I offered to drive her home and she accepted.
I drove up to the outside of her parents’ house. She was about to get out, but I tapped her hand.
“Hey, before I go... can I give you a goodnight kiss?” I asked hopefully.
“No.” She said flatly. She didn’t even blink.
“Ouch.”
“Sorry.”

“Ouch!” I said and made a pained expression. I clutched my heart for dramatic emphasis.
“Oh, come on. I didn’t hurt you.”
“What, I can’t feel disappointment?”
“Look, I just want us to be friends...”
Aaaaaaand that’s the Kiss of Death right there. Okay, Game Over, dude – that’s it. I’m done. I’m out of here. Yikes, I was in a really romantic mood, and it came to a screeching halt.

“You know, I am so sick of hearing that. I have enough friends. I want you to know something: I don’t kiss just anyone. A woman has to be really damn special in my eyes for me to do that. I like you. I mean, you’re a friendly, smart, attractive woman and I’m sick of dating bitchy women.”

“Thank you, but I broke up with my boyfriend about two months ago, and I think it might be too soon for me to start anything...”

Of course she let me pay for dinner. Of course she did. That’s how it works, because we’re just friends. The man pays, the woman plays. I’m sure she lets her female friends take her out to free dinners all the time, too.

I shook my head in frustration. Oh, please! If I’d been a famous, publicly-known millionaire, I bet she’d have found a way to get over her ex-boyfriend in a big hurry. I felt as if it had gotten to the point where if I’d heard the line “I just want to be friends” once more, I’d have ripped my own head off and used it to shoot basketball hoops.

“Very well. I understand. Have a good evening.” I was disappointed and I don’t think it was a secret at this point.
“It’s nothing personal… I just don’t want to get into a new relationship.”
“I understand. Good night.” She got out of the car and shut the door.

I headed for home, dark music blasting from the CD player. This sort of thing had happened to me a hundred times. I was so damn sick of the “let’s just be friends” line. Did she really have this ex-boyfriend, or was he just a lie? Why couldn’t she have mentioned this earlier if it actually mattered? In any case, there was no way I was going to call her again after that. Besides, if she had really wanted to be friends, she would have called me.


Utter Waste of My Time
 
I’ve tried to meet women online on more than one occasion. Sometimes it worked, but mostly it didn’t. Often, the woman in question wouldn’t respond at all or she’d totally flake out on me after the first email. More often than not, the women I met had some real personality issues that prevented them from finding a compatible mate in face-to-face situations. Like psychotic behavior, for one.


//
So, she actually didn’t want me to call her that night. Bah, another woman lied to me. I was more disappointed in women than ever. If she hadn’t wanted me to call her, WHY COULDN’T SHE HAVE JUST SAID SO on the phone! I was getting sick of these damned little mind games.
Whatever excuse she used for herself, it still didn’t make lying right. Kids supposedly learn better in kindergarten: Say “please,” say “thank you,” “don’t pull hair,” and “don’t tell lies.” A woman who lies because she thinks a guy is ugly, is more than simply stating a falsehood. There’s an issue of respect involved. When she lies, she’s essentially saying, “I don’t think you deserve honesty.”
When Vanessa and Molly lied to me they were “forced” by a socially-imposed idea that being a liar is somehow better than being a truthful “bitch.” That had to have made perfect sense to someone.

//
They see male sexuality as something that’s irritatingly omnipresent, cheap and meaningless. It’s something that they’ll deign to allow a man enjoy – if he can meet her requirements. She considers male sexuality to be worth less than a plugged nickel, because she knows she can get it anywhere.



Sex: Supply and Demand
 
 
I love economics. I’ve taken a bunch of economics courses in my time, and also plenty of classes that touched on economics, such as finance and international trade. In my opinion, you don’t really start to appreciate the dynamics of large societies until you take a class in microeconomics followed by a class in macroeconomics. As my knowledge of economics deepened, there was one thing I noticed about American society that made me pause for thought: a lot of women seem to treat sex as if it’s a tradable commodity.

Like nearly every other commodity, sex is subject to the laws of supply and demand. Did you ever notice that when a woman has sex a little more freely than the other women in her social group, she’s called “cheap?” There’s a reason for that – it’s a classic cartel situation, just like OPEC (the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries). Women pretty much control the supply of sex. They ration it out and create an artificial shortage. That is why they can get men to pay through the nose for it. It’s not that women don’t enjoy sex – they do enjoy it, however they also have an incentive to make it difficult for men to obtain.

It seems that women don’t always consciously realize that this is what they’re doing. There’s no big conspiracy – this is just how most women naturally seem to behave. Frankly, I think it’s more disturbing that there is no cabal of conspirators who are behind it all. The whole system is on autopilot, its female cadres just going about their business. Women are billions of different individuals. Nevertheless, most of them seem to hold similar attitudes towards their sexuality and use it to their advantage. Most of them withhold sex while appearing to offer it, if the man meets her conditions, and as a result, the aggregate efforts of all these individual women acting out of their own self-interest dovetails together into what merely seems like the implementation of a massive cartel.

I find it ironic that a woman who has sex with too many men is a “whore,” yet a woman who only puts out in return for an extravagant evening of wining, dining, and sparkly baubles somehow isn’t a whore. Maybe “romantic courtship” is a less blatant way of hooking? I challenge you to say the following to any woman: “It’s not manly to pay for everything.” She’ll look at you like you’re nuts.

This cartel is how women manage to bargain some measure of control over just about everything, and that’s just one of the myriad ways in which women counteract any power men might have, often cowing them into submission. Sometimes I wonder if it didn’t evolve the other way round... men sought power to counteract women’s hold over sex and reproduction?

On a side note, if you want to fully understand cartels, go get a thick book on economics. There’s usually at least a chapter devoted to the subject.


The Weakness of a Cartel
Like I said, women have managed to practically commoditize sex. Prostitution is called “the world’s oldest profession,” after all. There’s a shortage of sex, therefore the price is high. So what hope is there for the buyer?
There are only two things that weaken a cartel: an across-the-board boycott of the commodity, or alternatively, dividing the cartel against itself by mucking up its own internal enforcement mechanisms.

To address the first option, I think men’s only direct way to strike back would be to deny women the chance to have sex with them. Unfortunately, this seems unlikely to happen, because in any cartel situation, the seller has little problem if only one buyer refuses to buy. If more men refused to have sex, this would weaken the cartel. But, men being men, this probably won’t happen any time soon. We’re hooked on the stuff. On this point, women pretty much have us by the balls (no pun intended!).

Looking at the second possibility, a cartel situation inherently creates an internal flaw: every member of the cartel has an incentive to cheat the restrictions they’ve placed on themselves. To combat this tendency, one or more members of the cartel has to act as an enforcer. A successful cartel will have a built-in method to ensure the perpetuation of itself.

Without wanting to be too long-winded, let’s look at OPEC for a comparison. Say Indonesia overproduces its quota by 100,000 barrels a month. The price of oil goes down as more of the stuff floods onto the market. Saudi Arabia then acts as an enforcer. They have the lowest production cost of all OPEC nations and plenty of spare production capacity, so they can open up the taps and flood the world with ultra-cheap oil. The world price goes down to a point that punishes every country in the cartel (except Saudi Arabia) and the offending member gets pressured into stepping back into line.

Now, this sort of thing doesn’t happen among women in the same way, but there is enforcement of a kind. Specifically, social ridicule is used as the enforcement mechanism. If a woman gives away sex too frequently, women spread rumors about her and she gets a bad reputation. Basically, if she goes outside the limits of the cartel, the cartel will hammer her. That deterrence is the female method of making sure the supply of sex stays tight. If every woman gave away sex more easily, the price would fall. That’s why any woman who gives away sex at too big a discount is “cheap” – sluts are shunned and hated by other women because they drag the price down. Now, women don’t consciously realize they’re enforcing cartel rules – they think they’re just being social by trashing their “slutty” acquaintances. They’re just following the crowd, but it’s still a cartel that they’re enforcing.


The Invisible Hand

Lying Whorebag was constantly whining at me to spend more money on her. Her justification for this was that because I had more money, I therefore deserved to give more. Naturally, she obscured and denied the obvious fact that she was totally ambivalent about finding a job of her own. Here’s a fact: Lying Whorebag lived with me for nine months. In those nine months, she did not pay for one living expense or hold a job for more than one week. Not one bill, in whole or in part, was ever contributed to by her. She paid zero dollars and zero cents and you can’t pay any less than zero.

On one occasion, I confronted her over this, pointing out that our financial arrangement was unfair. Her reaction was to grab the biggest carving knife we had, run crying into the living room, and threaten to slash her wrists if I came any closer.

“All you care about is money! You’re so cheap! YOU DON’T CARE ABOUT ME!” she shrieked.
Shit.

I dropped the topic of money for a long time after that, and was reluctant to ever bring it up again. The experience of having her never contribute a cent to our relationship was one of the major reasons she poisoned my love for her. She made me feel constantly shafted, and it’s hard to love a person whom you think is shafting you. Naturally, she always accused me of being cheap. In her mind, if I felt put out by the blatant unfairness of the situation, then I somehow didn’t love her very much. In her mind, having to pay for everything wouldn’t matter if I really loved her. In fact, I was the most generous man she’d ever been with in her life (something her friends and family were always telling me). How is it possible that I’m cheap when I’m the one who pays for everything?

I didn’t feel shafted because I didn’t want to give her money – I felt used by her because it was my job to come up with the treasure under penalty of emotional pressure, shame, affection-deprivation, break-up threats and suicide threats. It was her job to decide how the treasure would be spent (on her). I think that sort of arrangement is called “exploitation” in simpler terms. On one occasion, she even authorized me to spend my own money on buying a computer game for myself. “Consider it a present from me,” she said. Even worse, I really felt grateful for it! Furthermore, if I ever refused to buy her something, no matter how small, her response was always the same, “Fine! No sex, then!” She would withhold sex unless I bought her the useless garbage she’d been pestering me to buy. Her prostitute mentality was totally, openly explicit like that.



Come to Taiwan, Get Laid

Not all Taiwanese women are like this. I’m not trying to start a “Come to Taiwan, Get Laid” ad campaign. In fact, Jianglin was atypical. Most women over there are very independent and aren’t willing to offer intimacy so soon. I think Jianglin had very powerful emotions and was swept up in the romance of it all. She was very shy and perhaps even felt a little intimidated by me. She obviously associated me with the movie Titanic and all the romantic imagery thereof. She was probably terrified of rejection, which is why she started to cry. American women often fantasize about exotic strangers sweeping them off their feet, don’t they? I imagine this was the exact same principle in action.

Naturally, women in the U.S. will read this passage and scoff that I made the whole thing up or that Jianglin’s behavior was weak and pathetic. I don’t see her behavior as weak at all. It takes a lot of courage to risk rejection and the possibility of unrequited affection. Men have to take the risk of initiating relationships all the time! When you have strong emotions for someone, it’s scary to risk rejection! She wasn’t submissive either. Being submissive means that you don’t take the initiative for anything. The way I see it, she shared the romantic initiative.

In fact, one American woman said to me about Jianglin, “Big deal. Any woman can make a man feel like God!”

Oh really? I can’t say I’ve ever heard of this happening particularly often back home. Perhaps American women have too much of a superiority complex, or they’re just plain lazy? Maybe they’re sadists at heart? Maybe it’s all three. Tell me, guys: how many times has a woman ever made you feel like God? The truth is that most women in America invest their real energy in making men feel like shit!

For that matter, why do women have to bash men? Why do men have to mistreat women? Why can’t both sexes bring out the best in each other instead of exploiting the differences? I swear, if more women were like Jianglin, there would be many more happy guys in the world. Or maybe there are a lot of women like her, but they keep falling in love with assholes. I don’t know. For the short time we were together, Jianglin made me feel like a god, and I did my best to treat her like a goddess. We elevated each other, and it didn’t come at the other’s expense. This is what relationships are for, no?


Musing About Life, the Universe and Everything
 
 
This one is really rambling, so be ready to flip between every topic and back again. I’m sure I’ll look like a raving lunatic by the end of it.
I was driving Shirley Moocher home. Her car was in the shop, so she needed to be picked up from work. I’d done this favor for her repeatedly while her car was being fixed, and each time, she’d gush at what a Nice Guy I was. (Ugh, stop saying that!) Shirley had been to the hairdresser that day and was asking me over and over if she looked good. How is it that a woman can manage to talk for fifteen minutes straight about her hair?
“Shirley, you look beautiful. Seriously, you have nothing to worry about.”
She smiled. “Thank you.”
“You know...” I chuckled. “Now I kind of wish that I was attractive...”
“Well, you are attractive.”
“What?”
“You’re an attractive guy. Way better than average,” she said.
I stopped the car at a red light and waited.
“Thank you,” I said in my most sincere voice. “You are the first woman who’s said that to me in a very long time. I hardly ever get told that.”
“Well, women never tell guys that they’re good-looking.”
“They don’t?” (In hindsight, this was a dumb question for me to ask.)
“No.”
I looked her right in the eye.
“When I was growing up, only my mom and grandmother ever told me that I was good-looking. Do you have any idea what it’s like to grow up hardly ever being told that you’re attractive?”
“No, I don’t,” she said.
“It made me think that I wasn’t good-looking. I swear, if an adult woman doesn’t have at least three men tell her she’s beautiful on a daily basis, she’ll lose her freakin’ mind... and women don’t make the slightest effort to return even one tenth the favor.”
“Well, women don’t tell guys they’re attractive because the guy might get a swollen head,” she explained.
“Oh, I see. And he might get vain and demanding?” I asked.
She nodded. “Yes.”
“Vain and demanding LIKE A WOMAN?!” I almost yelled.
She kept her mouth shut after that and I drove her home in frustrated silence. Women are black holes when it comes to compliments. They keep sucking them in and don’t give any back.


//
I started to get upset. You know, the U.S. and Canada seem to be among the few countries on the planet where it is acceptable for women to openly encourage each other to have opinions about men bordering on bigotry. Men have a thousand double standards working against them, and they can’t utter a peep of protest about it because they have to shut up and "take it like a man."

I hear it all the time. Dumb male pigs. Oh, men are hopeless when it comes to raising kids. Men are whiny babies that need to be saved from themselves. Men are scum. Men are assholes. Men are swine. Men deserve to be cut into thin slices and fed to wolves. Women do not even recognize – let alone acknowledge – their crucial part in the cultural inequalities that both men and women experience. I want to see women treated decently. But, very, very few women ever make even the tiniest, slightest effort to see that men are treated decently. Very few women ever give a flying crap. They walk around with their heads up their asses, totally oblivious to the possibility that they could have any flaws at all.


Getting Your Ass Kicked
You know one of the reasons why I think men and women behave so differently? Because if a man behaved the way women often behave, he’d get his ass kicked! Most men restrain themselves and show incredible patience and tolerance towards women, so women have the freedom to walk around with that smug “My shit don’t stink” and “I can kick my boyfriend’s ass” attitude.

Well, of course you can kick your boyfriend’s ass if he won’t hit you back! And like dopes, men keep showering such women with praise about how good-looking they are and what wonderful people they are.

I hear women make bigoted comments all the time, and there are damn few women who’ll stand up for males when hateful things are said about them. If I come over and say, “What you’re saying is sexist, and I think it’s offensive and wrong,” typically, they’ll either act dumbfounded as to what the hell my problem is, or they’ll laugh their asses off at me. “Oh, take it like a man!” You mean take it like a human punching bag, right? That’s all you regard me as, obviously. I’m expected to put on a happy face about it and go on my merry way.

This goes way beyond name calling: Men have been denied jobs or lost their livelihoods because of politically correct intolerance or frivolous harassment litigation. Men are routinely denied access to their own children by divorce courts and then hounded for child support for the very children they aren’t even allowed to see. Men die on the job and commit suicide in huge numbers every year, yet society is fixated on female victimhood. Women still do not recognize or acknowledge the profound impact that their behavior and demands are having on interpersonal, social, economic, and political events. Women are blind to any male problems, and are crushing the male half of the human race in the process of addressing their own desires.

It was wrong when Native Americans were routed from their homelands. It was wrong when blacks were enslaved and terrorized by lynchings and Jim Crow laws. It was wrong when women were disenfranchised in the days before women’s suffrage. It is also wrong today when women openly encourage each other to treat men like animals and then laugh about it afterward.

We live in a society where a woman can come up to me, knee me in the balls as a joke, and then run off giggling knowing that there’s not a damn thing I can do about it.

Women, stop expecting the male half of the planet to kiss your asses if you’re not even going to offer us at least a modicum of respect in return. Stop abusing the rules and ethics that have been set up to protect you! Stop taking advantage of our self-restraint! Stop acting as if you’re unaccountable for your actions! I’m doing my part, ladies. Why the hell won’t you do the same?


Cooking for my Ex-Fiancée
 
 
My ex, Lying Whorebag, used to talk at length about her old relationships. I hated when she would compare me to her former boyfriends. I especially hated when she would compare me to them unfavorably. Her unflattering comparisons were never about my character, intelligence, kindness, or morals – no, it was about way more important stuff, like the fact that I don’t pick fights in bars (an apparent lack of manliness on my part), or the fact that I like to read. I guess I never could quite measure up to the lofty standards set by her cheating, drug-dealing, fight-picking, friend-alienating, vehicular-manslaughter-attempting ex-boyfriends.

One of her former lovers was a good cook – so she claimed. My natural inclination was, of course, to prepare a real romantic dinner for her, to show that I did indeed measure up. Granted, she’d never cooked anything for me at that point in the relationship, but I was determined to learn to be a good cook; I loved her, and I wanted to show Whorebag how caring I could be.


Strike One

I set aside an afternoon one weekend and hauled out the elaborately beautiful china my grandmother had given me. I set up candlesticks, an ornate tablecloth, and polished the silverware. As an appetizer, I prepared smoked salmon with crisp vegetables. I made lightly fried ravioli for the main course, with Italian sausage and a green salad. I bought an Australian red wine to go with it (Australian wine is, in my experience, fruitier and sweeter than other reds). Dessert was an éclair from a local boutique bakery.

I was really excited. I was going to spend the whole evening with my honey, showing her how much love and care I’d put into my attempts to cook. I was hoping she’d appreciate it.
Whorebag arrived around 6 PM. It had taken me about four hours to get everything set up. I turned down the lights, turned up the romantic music, and lit the candles. As she approached the feast I’d worked so hard on, I pulled out the chair for her to sit down.
However, the first words out of her mouth upon sitting down were, "I should tell you, I already ate before I got here."
“Huh?” I was a little surprised – someone invites you over for dinner and you stuff yourself before you go? No, on second thought I wasn’t “a little surprised,” I was flabbergasted!
“You... already ate?” I asked, unsure if I’d heard her correctly.
Whorebag automatically flew into hyper-defensive responsibility-evading mode. This was her standard response whenever she’d done something wrong.
“Don’t blame me! My mom insisted!” She was always the plaything of circumstance rather than a decision-making adult, it seemed.
“Your mom fed you before you came over to my house for dinner?” I sighed.
Angry thoughts flashed into my head. Nonsense! Her mom hadn’t made her eat. She hadn’t pointed a gun at Whorebag’s temple and stuffed Hamburger Helper down her gullet! Nonetheless, I pretended it didn’t bug me.
“Well... aren’t you at least a little hungry?” I asked, hopefully.
Whorebag shook her head.

Well, I was starving. She could watch me eat. I started on the smoked salmon. I love salmon; tender, flaky, and full of the goodness of the Pacific Northwest. I offered her a piece.
“I don’t like fish,” she replied in her most pouty, petulant voice.
I guess that was sort of my fault. I already knew that she didn’t like fish, but I still hoped I could convince her to try something special. She took a single celery stick and glowered at it contemptuously.
“Honey, you don’t seem like you’re in the best of moods. Is everything alright?” I asked.
“I’m fine.”
Maybe she’d had a bad day. I decided to go easy on her. I started on the ravioli. They were crispy and golden brown, and swimming in a spicy marinara sauce. I offered her one.
“I said, I’m not hungry.”

Dinner continued in the same fashion. I offered her the salad and she didn’t like the dressing. I offered her the Italian sausage, and she would only nibble on a small piece. Why had she even visited me if she wasn’t going to eat anything? It didn’t make any sense. She had room for wine, though. And she managed to cram the éclair into her face immediately afterward, which of course was the only thing I hadn’t cooked myself. To be honest, my feelings were hurt. I’d put a lot of effort into that meal.

“Honey, did you really not like what I cooked?” I asked her.
She folded her arms huffily. “I would’ve eaten if I hadn’t been fed before I got here, okay. Besides, the food wasn’t really romantic was it?”
“What would be romantic, then?” I asked.

“You know, something sexy.”
Strike Two

Sexy eh? I had no fucking clue what food was “sexy” enough for her, so I decided to play it by ear. I spent another afternoon getting ready, setting out my best china, and preparing a feast. This time it was tortellini with Alfredo sauce, Caesar salad, and fresh cherries and whipped cream for dessert. I imagined myself with my honey’s head on my lap, slowly and sensuously feeding her little red cherries with a dollop of sweet cream on each one. That’s sexy, isn’t it?

Again I turned down the lights. Again I turned on the romantic music. And again I lit the candles. She arrived and sat down.
“Niceguy? You’re going to kill me…”
“Why?” I asked flatly.
“I ate before I came over.”
Anger bubbled up into my chest but I pushed it down and spoke with a calm voice. “Why? You knew I was going to make you dinner.” What was with this chick?!
“It’s not my fault!” she blustered. “My relatives came over this afternoon and my parents made me have dinner with them!”

I was starting to take this personally. I’d spent the whole freaking afternoon cooking and all my fiancée could do was throw a tantrum. Regardless, I was hungry, so I started eating. I offered her some tortellini with Alfredo sauce.

“I don’t like Alfredo sauce,” she refused.
For fuck’s sake. This was getting annoying. I offered to wash off and reheat the tortellini for her, and serve it without sauce.

“No, plain isn’t any good. Don’t you have red sauce?” she asked.
I didn’t.
She ate a miniscule amount of Caesar salad and little else. After dinner, I asked her to lie down on my middle-eastern rug so I could feed her some cherries.
“Do they have pits?”
Ummm... yes?
“That’s not very romantic. Spitting out pits, I mean.”

I guess not. Sigh.

Strike Three
Okay, okay, okay. I’ll skip dinner. Straight to dessert.
I invited Whorebag over for a romantic evening of cuddling. We spoke over the phone and she told me that her ex-boyfriend had invited her over to watch movies at his apartment that evening. She asked me if it was okay for her to come over at ten o’clock. She liked hanging out with her musician ex-boyfriend and insisted that he was just a good friend. I didn’t want to say “no” to her and be that controlling douchebag women complain about, so I reluctantly agreed.

I chilled a bottle of Asti Spumante and made chocolate-covered strawberries. Have you ever made those? It’s fun. You melt the chocolate in a double boiler, dip the strawberries, and chill them in the fridge. The chocolate constricts the strawberries as it cools, so it squeezes the fruit and it starts to look as if the berries have little beads of juicy pink sweat all over them. They looked so tasty, but I decided to wait for my girl before eating one.
9:30 rolled around and the phone rang. It was Whorebag.

Hey Niceguy, I’ll be leaving in a while. Just wanted to let you know.”
Cool! I set the plate of strawberries right next to my bed. I put the sparkling wine on ice with two glasses next to it and waited.
And waited.
And waited.
I couldn’t call Whorebag since she didn’t have a cellphone, and I didn’t know the phone number of the dickwad she was with. Now I was feeling upset.
But all I could do was wait.
And I waited some more.
Midnight arrived and she still hadn’t shown up. I couldn’t wait any longer, as I had to go to work the next day, so I dolefully turned out the light and went to bed.
At three in the morning, I got a phone call. It was her.
“Uh... h… helLo?” I muttered groggily, having been in a deep sleep.
“Niceguy! I’m so so so sorry! I fell asleep! I’m coming over right now!”
“OkAy... I’lL LeT yOu In WhEn YoU... *click*”
Whorebag arrived and she was actually apologizing for doing something wrong. It was like viewing a total eclipse or a bald eagle in flight – very, very rare.
“I’m sorry! I didn’t mean to! I just got so drowsy and fell asleep and Chad didn’t wake me up! Please don’t be mad!”
I was still sleepy as all get out. “Hon... it’s okay. I’m not mad. You can stay here if you want, but it’s late. I have to go to work in about three hours.”
She turned and noticed the glasses. The strawberries. The wine bottle. All unconsumed. She started sobbing.

“I’m so sorry! I’m such a bad girlfriend!” She grabbed me tightly and put her hand on my chest as I lay in bed. “You’re so good to me, and I treat you like shit. I’m so, so sorry.” She ran her fingers through my hair and kissed me all over. I loved it when she did that. two minutes later I was dead asleep.

Aftermath

I never tried to prepare a romantic dinner for Whorebag again. Three strikes, and you’re out in my book. I did cook for her after she moved in with me, mind you. She’d frequently be too listless to get off her jobless ass and cook for either of us, so I’d come home from a 10-hour workday and have to cook for her. Maybe it’s just me, but I think it’s kind of upsetting to come home after 10, 11, 12 hours of work only to be told that your significant other doesn’t have enough energy to cook because she’s been sitting around all day without anything to do.

I’m sorry, but that just boggles my mind. If you’re living in the home of someone who’s financially supporting you and you’re not working a full-time job, then it seems fair to me that cooking and cleaning becomes your job. Right? Well, no. That would’ve been sexist. But the man paying for everything that the woman consumes? Well that’s not sexist; that’s just the man doing his job!

I have responsibilities. A woman has options.
Ideally, the woman gets to self-actualize on the couch while the man soldiers on being a selfless goddamned workhorse all day. On 

top of that, he needs to do 50 percent of the housework and buy 100 percent of the diamonds. That sounds fair and equal, doesn’t it?

This experience taught me a valuable lesson: never cook for a woman, she will not appreciate it. She will instead become a sneering, hypercritical harpy, and will even go and eat somewhere else fully aware of the effort that’s been made on her behalf. For that matter, were you to reach up into the sky, snatch the moon and hand it down to your girl she’ll slap it out of your hands and demand to know why you didn’t also grab the stars and other planets too. Go figure.


You Don’t Need That Heart Anymore, Do You?

The next day, I got an email from Gaby. I couldn’t wait to read it!

“Dear Niceguy, I know this is bad timing and everything, but I think we might be a bit too different for this to work. I’ve been thinking about this for a while now. You’re a very sweet person, but I don’t think it’s meant to be...”

I stopped reading. It wasn’t meant to be? But I wanted it so badly! She was smart and fun, and I was so excited to be around her! I thought it was meant to be! And I was getting this email the day after I took her out for her birthday?! My heart hurt. My chest hurt. In fact, do you remember the scene in Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom where Mola Ram, that chanting Thuggee priest, clutches Indy’s chest and tries to rip out his heart? It felt slightly less bad than that, but not by much.

I suddenly got the impression she’d been looking at me all through the previous night, thinking to herself, “How am I going to break this to him?”
I wrote her a reply email, but frankly, it was pathetic. I’m not going to reproduce it here for the sake of my own sense of dignity. I was acting like an emotional cripple. I was also half-convinced that Gaby had come up with her plan to end our relationship using a page right out of The Satanic Bible, or whatever book it is they give to girls to teach them how to emotionally wound men.

“I know, I’ll break up with Niceguy via email – the second-coldest, most detached method after a Post-it Note! I’m so brilliant! I can totally purée his feelings without any guilt!”
I regretted writing that email as soon as I’d sent it. I’d almost certainly made Gaby think I was totally unworthy of her, for starters. I started to wonder what was wrong with me. How wasn’t I good enough for her? I had to know.

Postscript

Some days later, I ran into Gaby in the office copier room. There was no one else around, so I quietly sidled up to her. I was feeling pretty sad.
“Um... hi?”
“Hi.” She didn’t sound too pleased to see me.
“Gaby, I have to ask you a question...” I probably sounded a bit too whiny when I said it.
“What, is this a ‘what’s wrong with me’ thing?” Her voice sounded a little acidic.
“Um... not exactly. I mean, I really wanted to make you happy. I wanted to be the best boyfriend you’d ever had. I just need to know: what did I do wrong?”
She sighed and turned to look at me.
“Niceguy... for your next relationship, just remember: you can’t force somebody to love you.”
Oh. That explains it. Yeah, I guess I tried way too hard.

Gaby did eventually get over her aversion to me. One day, by email, she even apologized to me, and admitted that she had terminated our relationship in a shabby manner because of her own personal issues at the time. She also invited me to see her sometime – while casually mentioning that she had a new boyfriend. Needless to say, I opted not to meet up with her. I had far more fulfilling things to do with my time than remind myself of past mistakes.


// Tricia 

The Khmer Rouge abolished private property, organized religion and traditional family-based agriculture in an attempt to break up as many entrenched social hierarchies as possible, and create a grand new classless society by leveling it downwards and ostensibly rebuilding from scratch. The millions of former urbanites were forced to work in the fields for ten to twelve hours per day, in very poor conditions. Between 1976 and 1979, it is estimated that well over one million people died from overwork, disease, starvation or in mass executions of "class enemies." I suggest you see the movie The Killing Fields if you’d like to see a cinematic illustration.

It was during this time that Tricia’s biological mother died. It was a direct result of a lack of medical care. Then in 1979, Vietnam invaded Democratic Kampuchea because of a border demarcation dispute. The Khmer Rouge fled into the forests, and hundreds of thousands of slave laborers were free to escape. Her father, older brother and stepmother fled Cambodia in the wake of this hell-on-earth for Thailand. Television images of emaciated people stumbling into northeast Thailand were beamed around the globe, and large-scale refugee camps were set up. Tricia was four years old, and fragmented memories of her family’s escape were among her earliest.

Tricia told me about her memory of escaping with her father to Thailand. She had to hide under a canvas sheet on the back of a small boat in the middle of the night. She was crossing a small river, and remembered peeking out from under the tarpaulin. She saw the floodlit silhouettes of border guards with assault rifles slung on their backs patrolling the riverbank. She was so terrified of making a sound, she was afraid to breathe.

She spent the next three years in a Thai refugee camp, living in primitive conditions. She told me about what it was like to live there. Plywood and tarpaulin shelters were erected wherever there was space. Dirty water was the norm. Ragged, emaciated, starving Cambodians poured in from across the border. One night, a lantern accidentally got knocked over and a fire raged through the shanty town. Tricia ran into her dad’s flaming shelter to help him rescue whatever meager possessions they could save as flames licked at the edges of the tent. The next morning, she heard that a dozen people had died in the fire.

Her family came to the United States by applying to enter under the auspices of a special immigration quota for Cambodian refugees. The quota sounded rather limited in scale, and I have a feeling that Tricia’s family were probably very lucky to get in.

In short, Tricia had lived a large percentage of her young life in conditions far removed from that of most Americans. The deprivation had to have been considerable, and the memories were still fresh in her mind. I think she really appreciated living in a house with electricity and a flush toilet, and not a tarpaulin-roofed shanty with running sewage outside the door. Then, there’s also the ability to be able to walk around outdoors without fear of accidentally losing a foot to one of the ten million land mines which have been randomly strewn about the Cambodian countryside.

Basically, she didn’t act like a typical spoiled American princess.


// The love they talk about, not feeling the magic is the brain natural response to high level of pleasure. 	The brain NORMALIZEZ the response, it can't allow high levels of pleasure for a long time, it is for your own survival.
	If you want to quit something addictive you don't have to force yourself to suddenly quit. Just say I 	
want to take a break. By taking a break you give your brain a chance to normalize, the stimulation from your addiction most likely will not be that intense even if you try again the thing you want to quit. 
	So in terms of relationship it is natural to not feel that attracted anymore. In general relationship 
begin with attraction and the there is relationship building. So if you take a break from each other you will no longer have the attraction and there is no relationship building.


That Night, On the Phone
“I... I just wish you’d made this easier for me by being bad to me,” she said, sadly.
“What?!” I asked, surprised. I’d called her only a few minutes before. Now she was breaking up with me. The news hit me like a ton of cinder blocks to the gut.
“I mean…” she continued, “if you’d been bad to me, it would have been easier for me to break up with you. But you’ve never done anything wrong. You’ve always been so perfect to me, in fact.”
“That’s because... that’s because I love you.” I sniffled. My voice got hoarse. “Why do you want to break up?”
“I just can’t stand being so far away. I need someone close to me. The distance is just too much. It’s not because you’re a bad person. I just don’t think I want a long-distance relationship. I’m very, very sorry.”

“What if I came home more often? I could take a Greyhound bus to visit maybe every few weeks...”
“I don’t think that would help. I’ve been away from you too long. When I kissed you, it felt like I was kissing a stranger.”
“There was no magic?” I asked, a painful lump appearing in my throat.
“No. There was no magic. It felt like I didn’t even know you.”

I was really fighting back tears now. “Tricia, your love means everything to me. It always has. I’ve shown it every way I can. I’m sorry if I didn’t return it enough and I am sorry I couldn’t be home often enough for you to feel it. Please give us another chance.”

“I’m sorry, Niceguy. I just can’t do it. It’s too hard on me. I don’t ever get to see you. I need to be with somebody. I need someone I can see more often. I’m sorry, but... I’m letting you go. You’re free now, Niceguy. You don’t have to worry about me anymore.”
With that, we said our goodbyes and I heard her hang up. I held the phone for a while, tears sliding down my cheeks.
I sniffled. “I’m free now.”

It felt awful to be that free. At the time, it felt like the worst thing in the world. To this day, I have some trouble understanding Tricia’s abrupt change of heart. I know that people fall out of love with each other and long-distance relationships are tough, but why did it feel like things fell apart so quickly? Tricia’s letters up until that point had betrayed no clue that she was thinking of breaking up with me. Maybe her love for me was shallower than I’d thought.

At any rate, the end of my relationship with Tricia devastated my heart and shattered my confidence for at least a year after that point. I didn’t start dating again until the second half of my sophomore year. Of course, in the first half of my sophomore year it wasn’t for lack of trying – I just couldn’t get a damned date at my college regardless of how many women I asked out. Then I met Harriet. That would be the only intimate relationship I would have for the next two or three years...

Meet Evilguy

Evilguy is the Omega to my Alpha. He is Dirk Dastardly to my Dudley Do-Right. He is the aggregate composite of every negative impulse that I’ve ever suppressed. He accumulated in the blackest corners of my mind as a direct result of exposure to female bullshit. In soap operas, where a character has an evil look-alike, the wicked doppelganger always has an eye patch or a goatee or a facial scar to distinguish himself from the good guy. Evilguy on the other hand, looks just like me, except that he wears black. A lot. He wears a black trench coat, black boots, black sunglasses, black trousers... hell, black everything. His entrance onto the scene is often accompanied by malevolent-sounding background music by Prodigy or Rob Zombie. Evilguy is, in short, the accumulation of all the rotting crap that built up in my psyche for well over a decade.

Evilguy fed off all the contempt and casual cruelty which was directed at me, until one day he couldn’t be contained any more. Eventually, I had no choice but to let him out. There was a time when I could fall in love with American women. I had compassion for their suffering and travails (whether the problems were real or invented), but Evilguy didn’t care about any of that nonsense. He thought they were just a bunch of miserable sows – ambulatory vaginas who existed purely for his amusement. When he hears about bad things happening to American women, he reacts with indifference, at best. He just doesn’t give a shit anymore.

Evilguy Takes Over

After leaving grad school, I met a number of single moms. Each one of them soon indicated they were interested in pursuing a relationship. Each of them had also asked me to have sex with them at one point or another, but I had politely abstained because I didn’t think the situation was appropriate. I readily morphed into Captain FreeTherapist for them whenever they needed it. I cared about their emotions and I certainly didn’t want to take advantage of them. That was before Evilguy emerged from his hole, of course.

In late 2001, I was laid off from the company I’d been working at, along with about 1,400 other people. The national economy appeared to be imploding, and I hadn’t been happy at my old job anyway. My breakup with Whorebag was about half a year behind me at that point, but it had left a bitter aftertaste that refused to go away. In short, there was nothing left in the United States to stop me from leaving. Consequently, I wound up accepting a job offer to work for a company in Japan.

Until I left, however, I found myself with a lot of time on my hands. Opportunities for self-examination were plentiful, and the painful blot on my psyche that I’d been trying to hold back grew until I couldn’t ignore it any more.

I remember the day Evilguy finally broke out of his cage quite well. I’d been debating whether or not to see the two single moms I’d stayed in touch with one last time before I left for Japan. Evilguy appeared, dressed in black and sitting on the couch with a smirk on his face.

“Why resist?” Evilguy cackled. “Indulge. Then once you’re done, kick them to the curb. You’re going to keep me locked away while you’re in Japan, and we’ve got two months left until then. Seriously, give me one single reason why I shouldn’t use those two chicks for what they’re good for? Their only agenda was to see how much largesse they could extract from a man like you anyway, Niceguy. They’re ripe for the plucking!” He rubbed his hands together rancorously, chortling darkly like Dr. Claw.

“Don’t have sex with a woman if you don’t want to get emotionally attached,” I said sagely.
Evilguy grinned. “Quaint concept you cling to, this ‘emotional attachment.’ Very droll. It’s almost cute that you actually swallow bilge water like that.”
“It’s just not right to behave that way,” I said sternly.

“Righteousness with an empty sack is worth precisely an empty sack. Women in America are, deep down, a bunch of mewling, greedy babies. They want all the perks of being a lady while wanting all the privileges they imagine men have without the responsibilities that go along with them. And you care about the right way to treat them?” he snorted. “What have you been smoking, sir? They are worthy only of contempt, not adoration. All I see is a whole continent full of lying, manipulative, self-centered future beldams who roam from man to man like locusts, depleting each man’s ability to meet her gazillion demands. When his ability to cater to her whims gets used-up, she discards him and moves on to the next sucker.”
“But it’s just not moral to use a woman purely for sex.” I sighed. “Please don’t?”

“Schmucks spend all their time whining about morality. The bad boys don’t whine about morality; they’re too busy getting pussy. Let me tell you something Niceguy: you’ll never be Mister Right. We’re all just experiments for women. We’re dogs to be trained. We’re raw material to be sculpted. They latch on to a man to see how much they can change him in order to turn him into the mythical creature they fantasize about. If and when they succeed, he’s no longer a “challenge” and they dump him. So fuck them while you can and move on. Women are genetically programmed to lust after alpha-male predators, so that’s what you have to be.”
“I don’t want to hurt a woman’s feelings,” I protested.

“She doesn’t give a flying fuck about your feelings! She thinks you don’t have any! Why the hell should you care about hers? I tell you, there is nothing sweeter than drinking in the tears of a crying female. Nothing,” Evilguy leered back.

“But... I don’t really believe all that. It’s just how I feel when women treat me like I don’t matter. I want to see women treated decently. Being nice is its own reward. I decided a long time ago that I wanted to treat women well. I wanted to be the kind of man women always said there weren’t enough of in the world. I said I didn’t want to use women for sex. I didn’t want to be the bad guy.”

“Oh, and wasn’t that just a rousing success?!” Evilguy snorted sarcastically. “A decade of proven failure! You’ve been playing the jackass all these years. You approached women with the intention of respecting them. Treating them like they were wonderful creatures who deserved love and care.” He spat on the floor and laughed. “Deep down, women expect to be treated like shit! When you don’t treat them like shit, they think there’s something wrong with you. And how do they behave when that happens? They disrespect you. They spend your money, try to bend your brain and kick your heart in. They are thankless, spoiled, hypocritical whelps who’d use any excuse to take advantage of someone like you. Take a break, weenie, and let me drive for a while. I’ll make you a deal you can’t refuse: let me out until you go to Japan, and I’ll voluntarily keep myself locked away for the entire time that you’re over there.”

“Well... part of me still thinks that being honest with American women is the best policy,” I protested feebly. I could feel the Dark Side pulling at me. “I want women to feel safe with me. I can’t let you prey on the vulnerable. I want women to trust me.”

“Trust?” Evilguy scoffed. “Women don’t give a shit about you. Why in hell should you trust them? The instant she thinks you’re happy, she’ll stop at nothing to make you miserable. She’ll try to get everything she wants out of you, and she’ll grind you to pulp and freaking bone chips if that’s what it takes to get it. Riddle me this: what does a woman say instead of ‘fuck you?’”

“What?”

“Trust me!” Evilguy threw his head back and cackled at his own joke.

I couldn’t think of a comeback to that. “Fine then,” I said as I felt myself cave in. “I’ll let you out until I go to Japan. Then you go right back in your cage. Got it?”
“Back in my cage... with one exception.” Evilguy smirked maliciously and held up a finger.
“Oh no. What’s this exception?”
“If you come into contact with any western woman in Japan whom you think is a bitch, I get to come out again.”

“I don’t like this unholy bargain at all...” I frowned. “I can’t have you rattling your cage all the time when I’m over there, but you will if I don’t let you out for now. And I certainly don’t want to be mean to any Japanese women.” I proffered my hand. “Very well, I grudgingly accept your terms. If I meet a bitchy western chick while I’m in Japan, you can come out of your box, but only if it won’t compromise my relationships with any Japanese people, foreign men, or other people whom I declare to be off-limits. But that’s the only occasion it’ll be allowed. Agreed?”
“Absolutely, Niceguy. Agreed.” His smile made me uncomfortable.
We shook on it.


// Be very careful about feeling good or feeling right. That may not be the correct answer. As in you being an asshole can get you into trouble.

Later that day, Evilguy was walking down the street amongst a busy cluster of shops downtown, half drunk with glee at how fun it had been to take advantage of those two poor, naive young damsels! The wind was icy cold and it lashed briskly at his face. He noticed a pair of very attractive women in their late twenties coming out of a shop in front of him.

They were hot. Both were about 5-foot-7. One had curly blond locks streaming down her face, the other was a raven-haired beauty. One had angelic, Kryptonite-green eyes, while the other’s lovely azure gaze sparkled from behind very expensive-looking glasses. Both looked like they’d just gotten their hair and makeup professionally done. Both of them were wearing fashionable, brand-name coats.

If Niceguy had been around, he’d probably have said something to them like, “Hello, I’m Niceguy. I wanted to say that I think you’re both very pretty, and I’d love to get to know you better. Would you like to have coffee with me sometime?” or some sickeningly-sweet pabulum like that.

Naturally, they would have reacted with some naked deceit like, “Oh, we’re busy all decade, but thanks for offering.” A fat load of good that “I think you’re pretty” bullshit would have done for Niceguy. He was so pathetic. In fact, those chicks had probably already had ten guys hit on them just that morning. All those compliments can really inflate your ego.

Smirking oddly to himself, Evilguy walked past the two women. Just as his shoulder was about to pass the nearest one, he turned his head and sneered, “Holy shit, you’re ugly!”

He walked on, expecting to get something thrown at the back of his head. He gritted his teeth and braced for impact. Nothing came. He didn’t look back and continued to walk away, but did strain his ears, listening for some kind of belated, “Fuck you, asshole!” to be screamed at him. Again, nothing. Silence. They were probably too stunned to reply. He continued on his way, grinning wickedly.

Yeah, baby. That felt good.

Pop Psychology
Any pop-psychologist will tell you that if your partner often (groundlessly) accuses you of cheating on him or her, then it probably means that your partner is the type of person that would be likely to cheat on you. Their explanation being that your partner’s fears are a projection of their own temptation to cheat.
One of my friends, Artie, was married and divorced by age 32. He told me about his experiences:


But More About Lying Whorebag

Whorebag would periodically invade my privacy. She had no respect for my possessions, either. Every now and then, when she had a little too much spare time on her hands, she would look through my stuff trying to find hidden pornography or evidence of my infidelity. She would rummage through my old letters, old correspondences, and old emails. She would also look through my old photos. She even went through my old grad school papers, looking for evidence that I was up to something.

She didn’t like the fact that I had so many female friends. It made her jealous to think that I might enjoy being around women other than her. Maybe she felt threatened by them, or maybe she was just very territorial when it came to ’her man.’ Whorebag was exactly the type of woman who would run up and scratch a stranger’s eyes out if she thought they were going to try and take me away from her. I was flattered by that on some level, but it also scared me at the same time.

As I said, Whorebag felt free to invade my privacy under the pretext of making sure nothing ‘funny’ was going on, but the reverse – if I’d dared to violate her all-important privacy – that 

certainly wouldn’t have been acceptable behavior for me. One time, I tried to confront her on this issue.
“Whorebag, I feel like you’re violating my privacy when you dig through my things.”

“Your privacy?” she shot back incredulously. “Why should you hide things from me? What do you have to hide?” She then scoffed as if the idea of me having a need for privacy was a totally alien idea to her.

“No, I have nothing to hide. Hon, I’d never cheat on you. It’s just the principle. If you’re going to go through my belongings, then I think I should be allowed to read your diary. That’s only fair.”

“No! That’s different! Those are my private thoughts!” she exclaimed, shamelessly showcasing her typical double-standard mentality.

After that argument she kept her diary under lock and key. I really didn’t care what was in her diary, but the unfairness of the situation bothered me. I had no privacy, but she did.

I never cheated on her. Never. Not once. Yet, she still labored under the delusion that I might be doing just that.

I was constantly terrified that she might “accidentally” come across an old letter to a female friend at a random time. I was worried that Whorebag might take the letter totally out of context, as she was liable to distort, magnify, or skew anything that could be considered a bit too friendly. In her mind, it would be all the evidence she needed to prove I was living some sort of secret life away from her.


Disaster Strikes

I was at the office one fine morning. It was an ordinary day in every respect. The sun was shining. The birds were singing. I was in my cubicle with a stack of papers on my desk, busily working away. Out of the blue, the phone rang. I picked it up.
“Hello?”
“NICEGUY!” It was Whorebag, and she sounded pissed with a capital “P.”
I jerked my ear away from the phone and winced.
“Um... hi?”

“NICEGUY!!” She was practically screaming into the phone. “You’re going to tell me just what the HELL is going on!”
I paused. “Going on?” What did I do? I had no clue what she was talking about. All I knew was that I’d shown up at work and then Whorebag had called me up and started screaming at me out of the blue.

“What?! What is it?!” I was feeling the edges of panic. I could feel my adrenaline start to kick in. “Going on? I don’t know what’s going on! What do you mean, ‘going on?’”
“I found something!” she snarled.
I felt an icy little ball of lead start to congeal in my stomach. Ugh, what had she discovered this time?
“I was looking through your old photographs and I found a whole roll of pictures of you and Miriam. And you two are hugging!” she continued.

I smiled in relief. Holiday photos from what felt like a long time ago. I’d totally forgotten about them. Miriam was a very close friend of mine and we’d known each other for more than a decade. 

I’d never been more than just a friend to her.

“Those pictures were taken about a year before I even met you, Whorebag. We went on a road trip together with some other friends. We were just hugging for the photo.”

Then I suddenly remembered that there had been another occasion a few years back in which Miriam, my brother and I had been to a “slumber party” together. All three of us had been fooling around, taking funny photos of each other. There was one picture of Miriam and I in our robes, pretending to kiss. It was just innocent fun, but I hoped Whorebag hadn’t found it.

She had. “You look like you’re a bit more than just ‘friendth.’” She imitated my voice with a mocking lisp when she said “friends.” “By the way...” Her voice started to raise in intensity. “There’s a second set of pictures here too. Tell me, if you’re just ‘friends,’ why the FUCK are you in BED with her?!” Whorebag was totally unable to contain her rage at this point. I could hear the dam bursting in her head.

“Oh, those. There’s a good explanation for that.”
“I DON’T WANT TO HEAR IT, YOU FUCKING LIAR!”
“Whorebag, call my brother. He’ll tell you the truth! He took those photos over a year before I met you! I know it might look bad, but we weren’t-”

“Oh, yeah. Sure...” I could hear the sound of ripping. Rip. Rip. Rip. Oh no, what was she destroying this time? “I’ve HAD it with you! Now I know you’ve been lying to me!”
My eyes darted around the office frantically. People were starting to give me funny looks.
“Look, I’m going to come home right now. We can talk this over.”

She started screaming a long list of obscenities at me. I held the phone about a foot from my ear as a bunch of swear words poured out of it. I turned down the volume on the phone just as I heard something smash. Yeesh, something of mine just got really broken.

“I’m coming home now. I’ll be there in 40 minutes. Please don’t rip up anything else, okay?”
More screams came from the phone, and I hung up.

I rushed out of the office, leaving a whole pile of work on my desk. My boss would be angry, but I figured this was more important.


Hell Hath No Fury Like a Woman Insane

I came home to an apartment that looked like it had been hit by a tornado. There was paper all over the floor. All of my drawers were upside-down on the floor. Books had been flung off my shelves and stuff was scattered everywhere.

In the middle of it all, ripping up practically everything she could lay her hands on, was Whorebag.
She saw me come in the door and gave me a look of pure hatred. Tears were streaming down her face. “In this email, you call her ‘honey!’” She ripped the printed page in half with a grand flourish.

“Please stop! I call a lot of people ‘honey!’” I sat down in front of her and tried to put my hands on her shoulders. She slapped them away.

“Don’t touch me!”

“I would never cheat on you. Not in a million years. Those pictures were taken before I ever met you. My brother took those photos. He’ll explain everything.”
“I don’t ever want you to talk to Miriam again! Got it? She’s exactly the type of bitch who’d sleep with you just to break us up!”

I surveyed my apartment. It was a mess. I was in total disbelief that one person could create such a disaster. “Whorebag, why do you keep digging through all my things?”
She held up a fistful of ripped photographs and shook them in my face. “You gave me a reason!”

An hour or two later, I managed to calm her down, but from that moment forward, Whorebag forbade me to have any contact with Miriam ever again. That’s right – she required me to sever any and all contact with Miriam, my friend of eleven years.
Would I cut off my friends? Well, that’s another story.


Evilguy Screws Irene
 
 
You might remember that I once helped Shirley Moocher with her taxes. After word got around that I was “good at filling out those forms,” I suddenly discovered friends that I never realized I had! Everybody wanted help with their taxes. It got so bad that I instituted a strict policy of only helping out if I was being paid, and even then only if I knew the person well enough.

Collecting My Cousin’s W-2 Form

Some time ago, my cousin asked me to do his taxes for him. I agreed, and drove over to his house one evening to collect the requisite forms. He’d been fired from his day job three days earlier for showing up late to work. The reason he showed up late was due to an extended fight with Rachel, his on-again, off-again lunatic-of-a-favorite concubine. Needless to say, he was really hoping to get a tax refund that year. Not to mention a new job. On a side note, it amazes me how some women are willing to destroy their boyfriend’s livelihood over the stupidest things...

I walked up the snow-encrusted walkway to his house and knocked on the door. My cousin answered. He looked more disheveled and unshorn than normal.

“Hey... are you okay?” I asked.

“I feel like hell,” he groaned. “I’ve been tracking down job leads all day. God, all because of that fight I had with fucking Rachel.” He shook his head.

“Yeah. Sounds like things are real tough,” I said. Before getting fired, he’d been living paycheck to paycheck.


Speaking of Kicking

I don’t really want to go into detail about my Valentine’s Day experience with Whorebag. The whole event left carpet burn on my soul. We spent the first half of the evening at a Thai restaurant. Whorebag sat with her arms crossed the entire time, angrily muttering how much she hated Thai food and what a miserable piece of shit I was for forcing her to endure such a travesty. She also took every opportunity to remind me that all of her past boyfriends had given her better Valentine’s Day evenings than I was giving her. I spent the second half of the evening begging for forgiveness, trying to calm her down with promises that I would make it up to her somehow.

“I was hoping for something original from you. Why the hell can’t I have a boyfriend who does something original for me on Valentine’s Day?” she fumed. “My last boyfriend got me a limo!” And he also tried to run her over with his car on a different occasion, but he definitely gave her a better Valentine’s evening than I did, so that made him a better boyfriend, obviously.

Whorebag threatened to break up with me because of that. Honestly, who thinks it’s perfectly okay to terminate a relationship over being taken to a restaurant that you didn’t like? You know, just thinking about her makes me want to kick someone right about now.


Evilguy Goes to a Party
 
 
Have you ever hated something so much that the act of hating it actually made you deliriously happy? Evilguy has. Hating women in the U.S. makes him giddy with joy. In fact, he finds a new reason to hate them just a little bit more almost every day. It’s a pleasure that he knows is wrong, but it feels so right. It’s like Evilguy sprang into existence strictly to hate American women. Being forced to metabolize a steady diet of female bullshit for over a decade will do that to you.

If you’re going to suggest that I should seek professional help, don’t bother – I’m way ahead of you. I did see a psychologist for a while, and I didn’t get sent straight to the looney bin either. In fact, Dr. Lipsitz agreed with me on many of my observations. She (yes, Dr. Lipsitz is a woman) acknowledged that women often place unreasonable expectations on men, and that women’s own insecurities often drive them towards men who don’t treat them with respect. She said my angrier emotions stemmed directly from my frustrations in dealing with women, which had built up over a long period of time. As if I needed to pay $200 an hour for that piece of information. Anyway, she offered no solutions for me other than to “be yourself and just do things that make you happy in the meantime.” For what it’s worth, she approved of my decision to move to Japan if I thought I could find happiness and a gainful future there. So, I did seek psychological help, but it largely served to reinforce my convictions.


// Don't expect good things to happen on their own. Especially women coming to you on their own, unless you are famous, rich or both.

Lowering Expectations

Evilguy watched the party continue around him. All the women were talking to other guys. They were, apparently without exception, totally unwilling to show him the slightest amount of unprompted attention.
Evilguy’s lip curled in disgust. Holy crap, don’t you bitches realize that I’m giving you a chance to end my hatred toward you for one evening? he thought. Just act like I exist, okay? Pretend that I’m here. Pretend that you see me. Make eye contact with me.
“Hey, Evilguy,” my cousin’s (male) roommate said. He was the band’s bass player.

“Hey man. How’s everything going with you?” Evilguy said gamely.
“It’s going great. I saw you at the concert earlier,” he replied.
“You guys did an awesome job.” Cough.
“Thanks! Later.” He walked unsteadily towards the kitchen.

See? That wasn’t so hard, Evilguy said to himself. A guy talked to me and it worked out just fine. Why the hell won’t one woman do the same?

Maybe conversation was asking too much. Many of the former cheerleader types at the party that night probably couldn’t have kept up their end of a verbal exchange if their lives had depended on it. Evilguy decided to scale back his expectations for the useless pieces of eye candy before him.

If you make eye contact with me, I won’t hate you for one evening. I promise, Evilguy said to himself. Eye contact. Come on. I’m right here. Just look at me. That’s all you have to do.

Another woman walked past, totally oblivious to his presence.

Holy shit, how is it possible for me to not hate very single stuck-up bitch here? Evilguy ranted silently. All I’m expecting is for one of you to make half a second’s worth of eye contact and you’re not even doing that! Look at me and I’ll stop wishing that someone would come along and cave your faces in with a ball-peen hammer!

A girl bumped in to Evilguy on her way to the kitchen. She didn’t bother to excuse herself.
My God, this is awesome! he thought. I’m invisible to women! I could rob a bank and not one of the female tellers would see me!

Eye contact. Evilguy’s eyes were sweeping the room, and he could definitely see quite a few women, but he was still yet to have one look him in the eye. It was odd. I shared one quarter of my cousin’s DNA, yet he had at least four women trailing him everywhere he went. A ratio of DNA to chick-magnet-ness would suggest that I should have one woman fawning over me. But no, they were more interested in being around my semi-literate, drug-peddling, womanizing cousin.

Insane Anger

Oh, how I hated them. I hated them so much. Words cannot describe the pure, raw, hatred I felt for these creatures. All one of them had to do was say something to me, or even so much as look at me, and my hatred would have dissipated in an instant. But no, not one female at the party would make eye contact with me. How much effort does that take? As far as I was concerned, they were all self-centered, empty harlots who thought the universe revolved around them. In that moment, I hated them with the intensity of a thousand suns.

Ten minutes later, my cousin walked by with his three or four female hangers-on in tow. He slapped Evilguy on the shoulder.
“How you doing?” he bellowed over the pulsating, throbbing music.
“Doing great!” Evilguy lied.
My cousin walked into the kitchen, his bevy following close behind. Not one of them had even looked in Evilguy’s direction. He’d have hated to interrupt their silent reverence anyway.


Playing Their Game

Evilguy decided that maybe he was being too optimistic to think that a woman might make an effort to talk to a male unprompted. Hell, he’d have been surprised if half of the airheads at the party knew basic arithmetic. “Fine, I’ll play your game,” he grumbled under his breath. He’d have to try and start a conversation with one of them.

Evilguy walked over to one of the couches and sat down next to a slim, blond girl with pink highlights in her hair. A half-instant later, she got up from the couch and walked to the dining room, where she very obviously wrapped her arms around the band’s drum player. Evilguy thought about putting a skewer through her eyeballs.

He moved to another couch. There was a woman leaning into one corner of it who looked like she’d either had a bit too much pot, a bit too much to drink, or both.
“Hey there? You okay?” Evilguy asked.
Blank stare.
“Do you want some water? Anything?”
Blank stare.
Evilguy waved his hand in front of her face. “Anybody home?” he asked sarcastically.
Blank stare.
“Dude...” she said.
A response! She’d acknowledged Evilguy’s existence!
“Oh, you are awake! What is it?” Evilguy replied expectantly.
“Your cousin is hot.”
Evilguy gave a curt smile, got up, and moved on. She started babbling at the ceiling.
“He is so hot ’n’ sexay!”
Evilguy enjoyed the mental image of giving her a good cudgeling with a broken-off table leg.

One Last Try

Instead of asking a woman to be congenial, Evilguy decided to ask one for a reason not to hate her. It was his last, best shot. He was going to go up to a woman, and ask her flat out for a reason not to continue hating every woman on the continent.

He picked one at random. It was a woman he’d been introduced to when he arrived at the party. Her name was Danielle, and she was a friend of one of my cousin’s hangers-on. Evilguy prepared himself and walked up to her.

“Hi, Danielle...”
She turned around to face him. Her features registered a lack of recognition. “Ohh... um… what was your name again? Oovilgee?”
“Evilguy,” he snarled. That’s right, get my name wrong, ya dumb bitch. “Hon, I’m giving you the rare privilege of defending your entire gender tonight. Okay?”
“What do you mean?” She cocked her head quizzically.

“Danielle, this is a historic chance for you to defend all females, everywhere in the United States. I’ve selected you to speak for all American women! I want you to give me one good reason – one single, solitary reason – why I shouldn’t totally hate your guts, and the guts of every woman within our national borders. Please choose your answer wisely, Danielle, because I’m going to write it down. Hundreds of people will see it and understand that it is the sole reason that I do not hate all of the women in this country.”

Danielle looked at Evilguy in disbelief for a second. She paused in thought and then shrugged. “Um... because we’ve got tits?”
Evilguy smiled patronizingly. “Because you’ve got tits. Not a very good reason, hon. Thank you for playing though, and goodnight.”
Getting My Coat

It was one o’clock in the morning. I was sober. I’d had enough. I would have rather been at home playing video games. I went back to my cousin’s bedroom, where I’d thrown my coat earlier. The lights were off. I stumbled around in the dark for a few moments before the bedside light clicked on.
“Oh, dude, your coat’s on the floor. You going home?” it was my cousin’s voice. He was partially naked under the sheets.

“That’s right. Thanks for inviting me. I had a great time.” I tried to avert my gaze, but I noticed that there was a distinctly female form huddled under the covers. A hand emerged from under the sheets and rested on my cousin’s crotch.

I was going home alone to solitary masturbation. My cousin had a chick groping at his junk. Yup, the world seemed to be in perfect order.

“See you.” I closed the bedroom door and scowled blackly. Fuck her. Goddamn cunt! I suddenly had an urge to go back in there with an axe and chop her to bits.
Driving Home

“God, I hate the women in this country,” I thought as I drove home. “I hate them so much, and I can’t think of one good reason not to.” I was deep in thought, trying to find a reason to let go of my hatred, but there was nothing to stifle it. Nothing. I thought of Danielle’s answer to Evilguy’s question. “Tits” wasn’t even a reason, for crying out loud!

In my eyes, the air they breathed out was toxic. Their stench filled my nostrils and sickened me. At that moment, I hated American women more than anything you could possibly imagine. Every time I thought I couldn’t possibly hate them one bit more, they managed to push me an extra step down the road of fury. The idea of being nice to women had been ingrained into my head like some kind of birth defect, but it no longer made any sense to me.

My train of thought was interrupted by an odd sight on the road ahead. A car seemed to have skidded off the road, and one wheel of the vehicle was stuck in a big, snowy mud puddle.

My cousin’s house is located near a rather large nature preserve, and the road I was on goes right through one corner of it. Whoever was in the car was a mile away from the nearest phone, and it was a very chilly night.

As I got closer, my headlights cast more light on the car. I could see two figures waving. No, it couldn’t be... I smiled widely. I recognized the two figures as a pair of women from the party I had just left! Oh yes, it was definitely them. They waved to flag me down.

“Oh, God, this is too funny!” I chortled. They hadn’t paid me one little bit of attention at the party, and they really thought I was going to stop and help them?! Oh, sweet irony! I thought about what a complete load of fertilizer the night had been. I’d been treated like a non-person and ignored all evening. Did these women really think that as soon as they needed help, I was going to come and save their pretty little asses?


Violent Urges*************************************8
 
 
This is the story of the first time I ever recall feeling violent urges towards a woman and marks the beginning of my painful awareness of Evilguy’s presence in my psyche. In fact, my reaction to the whole episode shocked the hell out of me.
It was the summer of 2001, and I was at a bar with some of my friends. It was about six months after I’d broken up with Whorebag. I was sitting at the bar, when a very attractive woman came and stood next to me. She had short-cropped brown hair and was dressed very smartly. She was wearing oval glasses, had a pretty shade of lipstick on and a nice suntan. She looked like she wanted to order a drink, but the bartender was facing the wrong way.
“Yo, Mike!” I called to the barkeep. He turned to look at me and I pointed to the woman. “Customer here!”
“Thanks,” she said to me, and ordered a glass of red wine.
“What’s your name?” I asked.
“Monica.”
“I’m Niceguy. How are you doing tonight?”
“I’m here with my friend.” She gestured over her shoulder towards a table along the wall. There was another woman sitting there.
“You’ve got a nice tan,” I said.
“I was in Hawaii recently,” she replied matter-of-factly.
“I think my friends and I will be moving to a table as soon as one’s free. If you’d like to come over and sit with us, you’d be more than 
welcome,” I offered.
The bartender handed her a glass of vino.
“Maybe we will. Bye.”
She turned around and walked back towards her friend. She’d seemed kind of cold, but I shrugged it off. I wasn’t going to force her to talk to me.

Should I Ignore Her?

About twenty minutes passed, and my friends moved to a table across the bar. The television was showing snowboarding on ESPN, and most of my friends seemed entranced by it.
Meanwhile, I saw that Monica was sitting such that she could see me out of the corner of her eye. I looked at her, and a few seconds later, she turned her head towards me. We briefly made eye contact, and I casually acknowledged her. She waved back.
The next time the waitress came by, I pointed over to Monica.
“That lady over there – the one with the glasses and the white blouse? She and her friend can have their next round of drinks on me. Okay?”
“Those women over there?” she asked. I nodded. “Sure thing,” she said.
A few minutes passed and the waitress came back over.
“They’re happy. Here ya go.” She handed me the check and I pulled out some cash. My theory was that if I bought each of the women a drink, they’d come over and say, “thank you.” I’d invite them to sit down with me, and be able to get a conversation going. Well, that’s the way I’d hoped it would work out at least. Isn’t that a reasonable expectation?

Apparently not. Half an hour passed. Out of the corner of my eye, I saw Monica and her friend stand up and head towards the exit.

I Should Have Cut My Losses

Monica’s friend stopped by the ladies’ room on her way out. Monica stood outside waiting for her.

I hopped up and quickly walked towards the exit. I had about four beers inside me at that point, and everything in the bar seemed to be moving in an exaggeratedly confusing fashion. I stepped outside to have a word with Monica.
“Hi,” I said.
“Thanks for the drinks.”

She said it in a very perfunctory way. Certainly not in a way that conveyed any actual gratitude. I got the distinct impression that she’d only gone through the motion of saying “thanks” because she thought it was the best way to get me to go away. In hindsight, I should have just cut my losses and walked back inside to my friends.

Ladies? Here’s a tip: When a man buys you a drink, it is an invitation to a conversation. That’s why he’s buying you the drink. If you aren’t interested in having a conversation, then don’t accept the drink. You are not owed a drink, just as I am not owed a conversation. It’s quite simple, really. Furthermore, I think you already know this perfectly damn well but you don’t care.

“You’re heading home now?” I asked. She nodded. “Well... before you left, I just wanted to say that I think you’re really pretty and I was hoping that maybe I could call you later.”
One corner of her mouth bent upwards into a smirk. “I bet you say that to all the girls.” Her tone was acerbic, and dripping with sarcasm. She laughed dryly.
“No, just you. I mean... I’m talking to you, aren’t I?”
“Well, if you give me your email address-”
Oh no, I knew this trick. She’d never write me. I held up my hand to stop her.
“I’d really prefer your phone number, if that’s okay with you,” I said.
“You know, there are a lot of other women in there, yet you single me out?”
Her reaction was the total opposite of what I’d hoped it would be. Did she think she was being witty or something? Yes, I should have just turned on my heel and walked away from little Miss Sassy-Pants at that point. But no, like an idiot, I was still trying to be congenial.
“Well, yes. When you first talked to me, I thought it might be interesting to get to know you better,” I replied.
“Oh yeah?” She folded her arms. “What’s my name, then?”
“Monica,” I replied firmly. At least, that’s what I thought her name was this whole time.
She shook her head. “No, sorry.”
“Monica?” I asked. She didn’t so much as blink. "Come on.”
“Buh-bye.” She gave an insulting little wave in the direction of the bar. My face shifted in disbelief.
“What? You said your name was ‘Monica’ when we were standing at the bar.” I cocked my head. I was one hundred percent positive that she’d said her name was Monica. “How about Monique, then? 

I mean, I’m very sure you said your name was Monica.”
“Sorry, nope. Better luck next time.” At that moment, her friend walked out and took up position beside her.
“What is your name if it’s not ‘Monica’ then?” I was getting irritated. I really didn’t feel like playing these stupid head games.
“Buh-bye,” she said with one last smirk, as the two of them turned and walked away together. I stood there, unable to stop my confusion from turning into anger.
Buh-bye! The way she’d said that was just so freaking smug and dismissive! I could feel the rage building inside me.

I glowered at Monica’s back as she walked away. The path leading out of the bar had bricks lining the side of it, and I noticed that one of the bricks near my foot was loose. I looked at the brick. I looked at Monica or whatever her name really was. I suddenly felt an overwhelming urge to pry the brick out of the dirt, run up to whats-her-name and plow it deep into the back of her skull.
“Hey Monica!” I yelled.

Her friend quickly glanced back at me, but the woman in question did not. They were talking quietly as they walked. I was positive she’d said her name was Monica!

God damn her! She deserved to be smitten! My face collapsed into a twisted grin. Yeah, I’d pummel her senseless with the brick, and when she was on the ground crying in agony, I’d twist her neck ’till it snapped like a chicken bone! Then, I’d step on her throat and watch the life drain out of her as she lay twitching on the pavement. And then I’d hear each of her ribs give a satisfying crack as I stomped on her chest with the heel of my boot... I shook my head and put my hands to my face. Holy shit, I was thinking 
like a psycho!

Dear God! I shook my head again and rubbed my temples with my fingers. I’d really wanted to inflict horrible, searing pain on that woman. I desperately tried to put my mind in order. Was it the booze? No, it didn’t feel like regular intoxication. It was like something highly irrational was starting to poison my thoughts. Was I losing my mind? The realization of what I’d nearly done hit me like an Amtrak locomotive going full speed.

I walked back inside, feeling shaken and sat down to try and calm myself. “Let it go, man. Let it go,” I repeated silently.
I sat with my friends, looking glum. One of them pointed at the check for the drinks I’d bought the two shrews who had just left.
“Who were these drinks for?”
“Um, some people I met at the bar,” I replied. My voice was trembling a bit. She’d made a monkey out of me, but that didn’t justify me going off the deep end. Did it?
“Who? We want to know!”
“No one, really.”
“Some chick, wasn’t it?” he asked.
“Yes, that’s right.”
“Well, where is she?”
“She left,” I shrugged. I still felt like doing violent things.
“Heh, loser,” he smirked. “Be an asshole next time. Chicks dig assholes.”
 

Talking with My Psychologist
A week later, I was sitting in the office of Dr. Lipsitz, my psychologist. Ensconced on her comfortable sofa, I told her the same story you’ve just read. By the end, I was again totally flabbergasted by the farce I’d been subjected to.

“I’m positive she said her name was Monica! Yes, I could have misheard her name when she introduced herself, but I’m pretty damn sure I didn’t. I mean... did I just remember her name wrong, or did she lie when she introduced herself? Or maybe she lied about me getting her name wrong? I’ll bet she laughed her ass off at me on the way home. Seriously, was I her big laugh for the evening? ‘Oh, men are so stupid. Ha-ha-ha.’ So I’m stupid because she willfully misrepresented herself?! I guess it is stupid to think a woman is capable of honesty!”
I knew I was ranting, but I couldn’t stop all the pent-up frustration from pouring out of me.
“Well, you’re putting words in her mouth now. She never said you were stupid,” the shrink remarked.

“Okay, fine. She didn’t say I was stupid but... I was just trying to be civil! I was being a gentleman! That kind of treatment would drive anyone to the looney bin! Why the hell do women act like lying nutballs? Do they want to make total strangers hate them?!”
“Well, you were in a bar, and there was alcohol in her blood. An environment of-”
“With all due respect...” I held up my hand to interrupt her. “Please spare me the pithy bromides about how her behavior has to be beyond criticism. Why is it that women find such delight in telling lies?” I demanded.
“Well, before we move on to that, let’s go back to the main topic you were concerned about: tell me more about how you felt after your encounter with Monica.” She jabbed her pen at the air as she spoke.

“Okay well... I immediately started thinking like a violent wacko. I wanted to do something like break her head open with a cobblestone. That really disturbed me. I mean, I wanted to really hurt her in very gory ways,” I admitted. “Am I losing it? Seriously, are my mental faculties unraveling like a cheap sweater? I was afraid to even say anything to you because I was worried you might think I was turning into a psychopath. I’ve had these feelings since the bar incident, too. Just the other day, I was at a Starbucks, and I suddenly wanted to hammer a railroad spike through the stomach of the woman standing in front of me. Seriously, I envisioned myself peeling the flesh from her face with a razor. I’d never do it, but I definitely enjoyed the thought of opening a can o’ whoop-ass on her.”
“What about her made you think of doing that? Why her?” Dr. Lipsitz asked.

“I guess... you know what it was? She was attractive. And she just sort of had this haughty, smug, self-important, ‘I’m all that and a bag of chips’ aura about her. I had a feeling that she somehow deserved to be horribly maimed because I jumped to the conclusion that she was utterly corrupt and ugly on the inside.” I sighed. “I really believed that she deserved to feel some kind of pain.” I looked at Dr. Lipsitz sadly. “That was really what set me off. I know it sounds crazy, right?”
"You’ve never felt these urges before now?" She looked at me through her glasses.

“Up until now, I’ve dealt with my frustrations in much in the same way that any adult would. You know, you just sort of grin and bear it. When you call the Department of Motor Vehicles or your insurance company, sometimes you want to reach through the phone and slap the intransigent bureaucrats on the other end. That’s a perfectly normal reaction to day-to-day stress. I’m sure everyone feels that way from time to time.” I leaned forward on the couch. “This was different. It was... twisted. It was like I understood how a thug might feel. I got a good idea of how a serial rapist might feel towards the world. I really wanted to strangle that random chick at Starbucks! Worst of all, afterward I felt real relief. It felt good.”

“It sounds like this is an extension of your other frustrations with women. Your lingering issues from your breakup with Whorebag six months ago-”

“No,” I stopped her. “Whorebag never triggered this sort of reaction. No matter how insane Whorebag got, I never thought of doing physical harm to her. I really wanted to do serious harm to that Monica chick. I really, really did. I felt the same way with the girl at Starbucks. It bothers me that the thought of hurting them made me smile.” I ran my fingers through my hair before continuing.

“I bought Monica a drink because I was hoping that she might talk to me. Then she left without saying anything – that’s just rude. I had to try to talk to her as she was leaving in order to get any kind of response. Then she scoffed at my attempts to be polite. Monica was trying to be as big a bitch as possible to someone who was trying to treat her kindly! Whatever happened to common courtesy?” I slapped my forehead. “I’m totally positive she said her name was Monica! Does a woman ever not lie?! Honestly, I’m starting to think that women habitually do every low-down, dishonest, backstabbing, scummy thing as part of their normal 
everyday life. Am I turning into a misogynist?” I sighed.

Dr. Lipsitz shook her head. “No, I wouldn’t call you a misogynist. Not yet, at least. You’re just very frustrated and you’re reacting to that frustration. You’ve been coming to me for a year, and I think you have a very strong intrinsic sense of fairness and you reflect quite a lot on your own behavior. And obviously, you do have an attraction to women – it was obvious from your relationship with Whorebag that you’re a deeply loving person. So no, you’re not turning into a misogynist. You’re angry because you feel you don’t meet many women who treat you fairly and reasonably. Sadly, that’s not an unreasonable conclusion based on how some people behave. Some women are irrational, but not all of them are.”

I nodded in agreement. “I don’t feel that all women are irrational, but it seems like all the ones in America are. Case in point – the women in Taiwan. I really liked being with them. They were so wonderful they were almost addictive! They didn’t kick me in the shins for buying them drinks, and when I did buy them drinks, they said ‘thank you’ as if they actually meant it. Anyway, it’s a relief to hear someone else say what I’ve been thinking.”

Ding! Dr. Lipsitz’s clock went off.
“I’m sorry, but we’re out of time. I’d advise you to try to relax more in daily life. Before you go however, answer one question: do you ever think you’d act out the urges you’ve had over the past week?”
I paused to think about the question and then answered it as honestly as I could.
“No, I don’t. No way.” I looked at the ground and then back at her. “Look, thinking about doing stuff is not the same as doing stuff like that. Sometimes I want to punch my boss but I’ve never actually punched him. I have a very good sense of what is acceptable conduct and what isn’t, and I’m very certain I’d never cross that line.” I sighed. “If I had less self-control, I’d be honest and say so, but I know that I’ll never actually act out violently. I might think about it or want to do it, but I’d never step over the line because I know it’s just not right.”
That was a good enough answer for the Doctor, and I hope it is for you too.



Endgame: How I Broke Off My Engagement
 
 
It was difficult for me to write this, as it’s painful to recall. That, and my whole relationship with Whorebag was so complex that I needed to spend a lot of time making sure I got my story straight. Still, it’s a tale that needs to be told – the saga of how I broke up with my ex-fiancée, Lying Whorebag.
A Baptism of Fire
The end of my relationship with Whorebag was bad; very bad. The conclusion of my time with her wasn’t merely the end of “the relationship from hell,” but was instead a sort of baptism of fire. It was the end of my naïve belief in the inherent goodness of women, and the final, shattering blow which laid plain to me exactly how a woman could be rotten to the core. It was also a strategic watershed: I swore that never again would I allow a woman to abuse and manipulate me the way Whorebag had.

My ex-fiancée was very good at disguising her ability to transform into a complete sociopath. I know that while I’ve always portrayed her in previous stories as being a total nutcase all the time, the beginning of the relationship wasn’t like that at all. In fact, at first she seemed quite sweet and charming. Even towards the end, every now and then she would make the most amazingly tender gestures. With the proper use of flattery and gentle touching, she could evoke strong emotions in me. Unfortunately this was all an act. She knew what kind of behavior to fake in order to get me to respond the way she wanted.

I think she claimed to love me because I was the first man she’d been with who hadn’t treated her like shit. Before she met me, all her previous relationships were with bad boys who neglected her, stole from her, yelled at her, and made her feel worthless. In fact, early on in our partnership, one of her female friends came up to me and quietly thanked me for “breaking Whorebag’s vicious cycle of going from asshole to asshole.” Her parents, sister, and friends also expressed similar sentiments towards me. They told me that I was the best man she had ever been with, and how happy they were that she finally had someone who treated her decently. Looking back, I suspect Whorebag didn’t know how to behave when she was with a man who treated her well.

Too Good to be True

Through some cosmic whim or genetic fubar, Whorebag embodied many of the very worst stereotypically female traits. Everything about her was extreme: her mood swings, her vanity, her lack of honesty, her fickleness, her materialism... Even her beauty was extreme. She had long, shiny, raven-black hair and the body of a swimsuit model. Most captivating of all were her eyes – they were like sparkling green emeralds. With the right makeup, clothes, and hairdo she could look absolutely incredible. There were times that her appearance left me agog.

Whorebag’s personality could often be quite sultry, too. Her voice was like the Sirens’ song when she wanted it to be. When it came to sex, she was a genius. Being with her was, without a doubt, the best lovemaking I have ever experienced in my life. It was the most satisfying, exciting, and happy sex I’ve ever had. She could overload the pleasure centers of my brain and make me writhe and scream in delight for what seemed like hours. It was like she knew my body even better than I did. Early on in our relationship, we would make love at the drop of a hat. Afterwards, we would cuddle and then hop in the shower together. It was always a pleasure to do either.

Some days, I would spend entire afternoons thinking of Whorebag. I loved her to the point where I did things that were clearly against my own self-interest. I’d never imagined that I could ever be like that. Being manipulated is often something you don’t spot until after the fact. If the manipulator is skilled enough, you might never realize that you were being played at all. Whorebag seemed too good to be true because she was too good to be true. It was a fool’s paradise I was living in. She swore a thousand times about how trustworthy she was and how much she loved me, and she insisted that she was always wholly reasonable. I know that I’m a loving, reasonable and trusting person, so I guess I allowed myself to see those qualities in her, too. Never before in my life had I ever been so successfully manipulated.

I’m sure a lot of people out there will be quick to disparage my story on the basis that I should be the one to blame for the mess I found myself in, due to the fact that I didn’t break up with Whorebag earlier. The trick, though, is that a cleverly abusive woman doesn’t start out being abusive – she always keeps her intentions hidden until she knows you’ve got your defenses down and have invested in her emotionally to such a degree that leaving would be incredibly painful. If Whorebag had beaten me over the head with a rolling pin on the first day I met her, I would obviously never have been sucked in. As always, hindsight is 20/20 and abusive women are rarely so obvious.

The Relationship
Whorebag once called me in the middle of the afternoon and asked me to meet up with her and her friends at their regular hair salon. They had been getting their hair done, and I’d suspected that they hadn’t eaten lunch, so when I walked in the door I presented Whorebag with a pizza I’d bought on the way there. Her friends all gushed about what a great boyfriend I was, and grumbled to each other about how their boyfriends would certainly not have come to meet them at a hair salon, and would definitely not have brought them a pizza. They commented about how lucky Whorebag was that she had such a generous and thoughtful man in her life. The hairdressers echoed the same sentiment and wished their boyfriends would bring them pizza. I freely admit that all the compliments made me feel pretty good about myself – they all acted like I was a catch!

The care and devotion I expressed towards Whorebag was not mirrored on her side of the relationship, however. Throughout our time and troubles, she demanded that I always treat her fairly and never raise my voice to her. Naturally, she never felt she was under any such obligation towards me. She gave lip service to fairness while doing the most outrageously selfish things. She was neither forgiving nor apologetic, yet always demanded both from me. Furthermore, she would not tolerate any double standard that didn’t benefit her, and she refused to be judged by standards that she herself did not establish. Ultimately, I have to admit that I made three particular missteps while I was with Whorebag: I was too tolerant, I was too patient, and I was too forgiving. She deserved none of those things.

Moreover, there was no way in hell any human being could have fulfilled the demands that Whorebag gradually began to pile on me after we got engaged. Her whims were all contradictory, and as soon as I fulfilled one, it would immediately conflict with another. It was useless to point this out to her, because she would simply claim that I was trying to make excuses for how I was ignoring her well-being.

I tried hard to build a future for us. I was working, paying our bills, putting money in the bank, investing in the stock market, making plans for career advancement, trying to meet her needs, and basically acting like an adult. Standing behind me in a self-described ’supporting’ position, Whorebag would goof off all day and find new ways to undermine me. She would do shitty, childish things and justify it all by convincing herself (and me) that she was in fact, more loving and supportive than I could ever be. In her mind, because I had to divide my energy between my job, my other responsibilities, and her, I was somehow neglecting her. However, because she was unburdened with those extraneous concerns, she was free to devote a larger percentage of her effort to addressing what she felt were my needs. No matter how much I said I loved her or what I did to try and show her how much I cared, she would always insist my attention was divided and that she wasn’t getting a big enough share of it.

I was under a lot of stress during our relationship, but the first nail in the coffin came when Whorebag admitted to me that she’d cheated on me with one of her ex-boyfriends. It was at that point that I began to realize that maybe she wasn’t as trustworthy as I’d thought she was.

The First Nail
Whorebag and I had an argument over the phone one afternoon. It wasn’t long after we’d gotten engaged, and centered around how long our engagement period should last. I was a bit reluctant to tie the knot in a hurry as I felt that she’d twisted my arm. She, on the other hand, wasn’t willing to wait a single day longer than six months. When I tried to tell her that six months probably wouldn’t give us nearly enough time to plan a wedding, she complained that I was holding our relationship back. I countered with an offer of twelve months. Nope, that was still too long; it had to be six months or nothing.
The argument went back and forth for nearly an hour. Eventually, Whorebag flew into a rage and started crying. She refused to calm down unless I agreed to her demand to be married inside of six months. There was no way I could agree with her because it would have been impossible to arrange the kind of wedding she wanted in that amount of time. Eventually, she hung up the phone in anger.
I didn’t hear from her for the rest of the day. I was worried, but figured she just needed some time to get the frustration out of her system. Instead, I got a call from her at 3 in the morning. Her voice sounded strained.
“Niceguy? Um... I... I’m so sorry... I...” She burst into hysterical tears. “I slept with my ex-boyfriend!”
“WHAT?!” I was flabbergasted. “How could you?!”
“I don’t know!” she sobbed. "After we fought, I had to talk to someone, so I went to his house. And... I don’t know why we did what we did, but... I slept with him! I’m so so sorry!" she bawled.
I hung up on her, dumbfounded. My head was swimming. Dear God. I had no idea what to think. The phone rang again. I let it ring until the answering machine picked it up. It was Whorebag, her voice frantic with tears.
"Babybabybaby! I’m sorrrryyyyy! PLEASE FORGIVE ME! I LOVE YOU!"
I picked up the phone. "Honey, I... I’m really stunned. I don’t know what to say..."
"I’M SORRY I’M SORRY I’M SORRY!" she kept crying.
"How could you? I mean, how could you just have sex with your ex-boyfriend like that?!" I asked in disgust.
"I don’t know! I was so upset! I just wasn’t thinking! I’M SORRY!"
I started to feel a little light-headed.
“Look... I’m going to need a little while to think things over. I need some fresh air."
"I’m sorry! Please forgive me!" she pleaded.
"Let me think things over for a while, and I’ll call you back. Bye." I hung up the phone again and went back to bed.
I slept until noon, then went to see a movie. I sighed the whole time. I just couldn’t believe it. I mean, she’d accidentally slept with her ex-boyfriend?! How do you “accidentally” have sex with someone? Was she pleading temporary insanity?
When I arrived home, there were four messages on my answering machine. All were various pleas for my forgiveness, but I just didn’t feel up to calling back.
Late that afternoon, I got another phone call. It was Whorebag again.
“Niceguy?”
I waited a moment and then answered. “Whorebag, I’ve been thinking about us all night...” I felt the bizarre urge to apologize for putting her through all that mental anguish. It just didn’t seem right for me to keep ignoring her tearful requests for forgiveness.
“I... need... help!” she panted.
“What? Help?”
“Its... it’s my blood pressure! It’s... too high and I’m... too dizzy to drive! Please help me!”
Well, sometimes she did get bouts of high blood pressure. She was fairly highly-strung, and it would make her dizzy when it happened.
“Where are you?”
“Please don’t be mad, I can explain... I’m at my ex-boyfriend’s house!”
Oh, great. I rolled my eyes. Of all the places in the world she had to go...
“Please help me! My parents would kill me if they found out I was at his house again. Please! I really need you!”
I gave a derisive snort. “Why not ask Mister Wonderful to drive you?”
“Because he just won’t help! Please! I need you right now!”
She sounded genuine enough. I sighed and asked for the directions.
Fuming the whole way, I drove over to fetch Whorebag. I’d never met her ex, but I’d heard of him. He was in a ska band and, according to Whorebag, he’d cheated on her constantly and hurt her feelings nearly every day of the week. Yet, she’d kept going right back to him...
It was a long drive, but I eventually found his place and parked out front. I was about to ring the doorbell, but noticed that the door was ajar. I opened it and poked my head inside.

“Whorebag?”
“I’m here!” she called faintly. I walked in and saw that she was lying haphazardly on his couch. Her facial expression made it clear she felt very sick. Sitting next to her was her ex-boyfriend. I gave him a quick once-over: shaven head, grungy clothes, and an inflatable promotional Corona bottle standing in the living room corner – what a winner. We briefly made eye contact, but it was too quick for me to see his expression, so I ignored him entirely. Whorebag weakly raised her arms and held them out to me.
“I can’t walk! I’m too dizzy!” she wheezed.
I walked over, bent down, and put my arms underneath her, carrying her limp form out to my car. I grudgingly placed her in the front passenger seat and then got in to the drivers’ side and started the engine.
“I’m so sorry!” She wiped at the tears running down her face. “Why do I treat you like shit?!” She pounded the car seat with her fist. “I was so stupid!”
I ignored her and pulled out of the driveway.
We drove towards my apartment, with me saying nothing and Whorebag continuing to sob from time to time. I rolled down the car windows to let in some fresh air, and once her tears had subsided I spoke up.
“I got your phone calls...” I began.
“Where were you?!” she asked. “I waited outside your place forever!”
“I needed some time to think, so I went out for a few hours. Why would you go to his house? I mean, of all places!” I asked.
“I... I know it looks bad, but please believe me. I went there to tell him that I was never going to see him again, and how angry I was at him for taking advantage of me when he knew that I was engaged. I told him that I loved you more than anything, and that he should never even try talking to me again.”
I frowned. “Really? I find that hard to believe.”
Whorebag’s face suddenly turned serious. “It’s the truth. I promise.”
“And then your blood pressure shot up and you started getting dizzy? I want to trust you, but I’m not sure that I can any more.”
“Oh, Niceguy... I... I...” She started crying again. “If you never forgive me, I’ll understand!” She scrubbed at the tears streaming down her face. “I never meant to hurt you! I want to die! I’m so bad to you!” She leaned forward in her seat and put her head on the dashboard. I stopped the car outside my apartment building.
“Hon, I hate seeing you in so much pain.” I sighed. “Honey, I love you.” I put my arm around her and cradled her head. “Shh, shh, calm down. Take deep breaths. Whorebag, I love you. I really, truly love you so very deeply. I still do.” Her breathing began to slow, and she started to settle. “I love you with all my heart, but what you did last night really hurt me.”
Whorebag wailed and started weakly pounding her fists against the seat again.
“No!” she bawled. “I want to die! I want to die knowing that I hurt you!” she hollered into my chest.
“Honey, no. Calm down. Please? I don’t like seeing you in so much pain.” I patted her and held her close. “I’m a very forgiving person because I know we all make mistakes, sometimes even terrible mistakes. If I made a terrible mistake, I know I’d want to be forgiven. Don’t you think you deserve to be forgiven?”
“No, I don’t! I deserve to die!” she screamed.
“No, you don’t deserve to die, honey. Please don’t say that,” I soothed as I ran my fingers through her hair. Her apparent desire to harm herself for the pain she’d caused was starting to frighten me. I’d never imagined having to deal with a situation like this. I started to feel like it was necessary to absolve Whorebag to prevent her from hurting herself...
“You’re the most important person in the world to me and I love you very much. I forgive you, okay? I forgive you.”
She sniffled and slipped her arm around me. “Do you mean it?” she panted, tears dribbling down her cheeks.
“Yes, I forgive you. Everybody deserves a second chance,” I told her as she slowly started to calm down again. “Baby, I want to forgive you and get this behind us. Really. And I promise I’m not going to bring this up again in the future to make you feel guilty, either. I’m glad you told your ex-boyfriend that you never want to see him again. I think that was the right thing for you to do. But do you understand that you’ve made it harder for me to trust you?”
“Yes, I...” She looked at me and tearfully threw her arms around me, crying softly into my chest. “Baby, I’ve learned my lesson! I’m so sorry! I’ve got to be loyal to you! I’ve got to be good to you!” She held me tight. “After everything I did... you still came to help me!” She started crying again. “You’re so good to me! I’ve never been treated so well by anyone! Niceguy, I know I’m meant to spend the rest of my life with you!”
I hugged her for what seemed like forever. We went into my apartment and I held her until she fell asleep from exhaustion.
So, like a sap, I forgave her. I wanted to wipe the slate clean, get the problem behind us, and move on. Now I realize it would have been better if I’d dumped her then and there. At least she’d have known that she was unambiguously in the wrong instead of being left with enough wiggle room to fabricate a justification for herself after the fact.


The Malaise Deepens

Whorebag and I put the awful events of those two days behind us and the relationship continued without significant incident for about three more months. Indeed, Whorebag was on her best behavior. Nevertheless, issues slowly started popping up again and as time went on, Dorothy underwent a slow-motion transformation into the Wicked Witch of the West. It happened so gradually and subtly that I didn’t notice any change until it was nearly too late.

Looking back, I can see that the first signs of dysfunction returned to our relationship due to the fact that Whorebag did not have a job. Not only did she not have a job, she apparently had no intention of getting one. And, since she didn’t have a job, she was adamant that she couldn’t be expected to pay any of our bills. Whorebag certainly made a big show of how much she wanted to contribute, but when she did finally land a position, she quit after a mere three days. She didn’t seem capable of taking the job seriously, and claimed that her co-workers were scheming about her behind her back.

Even so, I could have tolerated the fact that all our financial burdens were in my hands if I’d at least been able to make a consistent budget that the two of us could stick to. Instead, Whorebag was always expecting me to buy her expensive presents or jewelry “just because.” She would insist that we go shopping for her on a regular basis, ostensibly because she couldn’t afford to buy anything on her own, and also because she “didn’t have anything to wear.” Expensive clothing and jewelry is not something we could afford on a regular basis given that we were living on a single salary, and unfortunately, denying her any much-desired trinket would be considered an act of war. I would inevitably be labeled a “cheap bastard,” and consigned to the doghouse for the following week.
Worse, when I had to work late, Whorebag would make sure I felt miserable about it. I would be treated to bitter, hour-long rants about how there was something horribly, horribly wrong with me for putting my job before the woman I loved. If I truly cared for her, she claimed, I would change my job to suit her needs. Her haranguing on this point became so bad, that I spoke to her mother about it once. I explained that Whorebag was constantly complaining about me being required to work late, and that her unreasonable behavior was starting to make my life a living hell. Whorebag’s mother approached her quietly to talk about the importance of letting me do my job (seeing as how I was supporting her) but it didn’t have an impact. Whorebag still insisted that I was working too much, and that I wasn’t spending enough time with her. In her mind, the only way the situation would get better was for me to change jobs, period.


Pumping Niceguy for Information

Then there was the issue of how Whorebag would try to finagle personal information out of me. She would insist that I “open up” and talk about my feelings, often at the most random of times. This included several occasions where she developed a sudden insistence that we talk at two o’clock in the morning when I had work the next day!

Naturally, my reluctance to get into a deep emotional discussion at all hours of the night would be taken as a sure sign that I was hiding things from her. Whorebag wouldn’t stop harassing me until I said something to get it all over with, and whatever I told her in confidence would inevitably be spilled to both her family and mine. Whenever I confronted her over this, she’d chide me for keeping secrets from my family and make clear that I was the one who had a problem if I didn’t appreciate her violation of my trust.

Complicating matters was the fact that Whorebag (in her self-described “supporting position” in our relationship) wanted to be in charge of whose needs had to be met, and when. Her needs always took top priority, of course; she didn’t really give a shit about me. We only talked about my feelings when it suited her, and even then only so she could remind me of how selfish I was by not putting her first at all times. If I tried to argue this point, she would start crying about how I was trying to make her feel bad, and what a bastard I was to devalue her contributions to our relationship.

The burden of responsibility for everything was always shifted back to me. I was being outrageous by suggesting that she was anything less than a saint, suffering under my heel. I was never doing enough in the relationship, and anyway, my love for her wasn’t real love like the kind of love she gave me.

“Oh, maybe you love me in your own little way,” she would say as if I felt some kind of ersatz pseudo-love for her, which wasn’t anywhere near as close to real as the way she felt. In her eyes, only females were capable of true depth of emotion.

As far as I can tell, Whorebag’s only purpose for wanting to discuss my feelings and inner secrets was so that she could use both as a means of controlling me, or as ammunition for our next fight. To deny her that advantage was the gravest of insults, and a sure sign that I was mistreating her.
Litany of Woes

Whorebag also never allowed me to pursue any of my hobbies without acting like I was ignoring or insulting her, or both. Sometimes, I would take her to the bookstore so we could have a quiet afternoon reading together. I would pick my book off the shelves, she would get hers, and I would then spend half the time trying to block out her griping about how geeky I was for reading books on history, economics, politics, and the like. According to her, it was important that I change my reading habits so that I wouldn’t be so “different.”

If I ever wanted to go and see any of my friends, Whorebag would bitterly resent me for ’neglecting’ her. I would explain that I felt like I was losing contact with them, and she would act insulted.

“Fine! Go see your friends, then!” she’d pout as she crossed her arms. Seriously, have you ever seen an adult pout? It’s ridiculous. I could never see my friends without her trying to make me feel guilty the whole time.

Sometimes, Whorebag would take me to gatherings in order to create a new circle of acquaintances that were more convenient for her. At these gatherings, I was forbidden from talking about topics that might reveal my status as a nerd. My favorite movies, politics, travel, history, Taiwan, current events, books, and issues at my job were all off the table. If I so much as breathed a word about any of these, I would be angrily taken aside and indignantly hissed at for “being a geek again,” as I was supposedly embarrassing Whorebag in front of her friends. Either I learn to socialize properly, or I should just shut up. Naturally, it was safer for me to shut up for the rest of the evening. This would inevitably result in me getting yelled at on the way home for acting like an antisocial snob. It was useless for me to point out this catch-22, because, according to Whorebag, all I had to do was “act normal.”

An Uncommon Capacity for Selfishness

Even when she got exactly what she wanted, Whorebag could still find a way to fly off the handle. On one occasion, she asked me to go out and buy her a chocolate bar. Normally, there would be nothing wrong with such a small request, but this time was different: I had just come home from fourteen hours of work, it was past 11:00 PM, it was snowing outside, and I was dead tired.
“Sorry Hon, I’m in for the evening,” I replied. In fact, I had already stripped down to my underwear and was just about to collapse into bed.

“I want a candy bar,” Whorebag repeated.
“Sorry, not tonight.” I began to pull back the bed covers. “I’m too tired to go out.”
“Niceguy, please?” She put her hand over the spot I was about to lie down on.
“I’m dead on my feet. Maybe some other night,” I replied more sternly as I moved her hand out of the way and laid down to close my eyes.
Whorebag poked me.
“I really want one. I have a craving,” she pleaded.
“Sorry, but no. I really need to go to bed. If you want one, you know where the store is.”
She started poking me more insistently. Poke. Poke. Poke. Poke. Poke. Poke. Ugh, enough!
“Okay, okay! If you get dressed and accompany me to the store, we can get you candy.”
“Fine,” she replied with irritation. She didn’t move either.
“Are you going to get dressed?” I asked.
“Uh-huh,” she intoned, her eyes glued to the television set in our room.
I waited. About five minutes passed. The nearest store was going to close soon, and at the rate she was moving, it would be easier to just go get the candy myself.
I got dressed again and left, all the while grumbling to myself at how ridiculous the situation was.
"Lousy, razzafracking mumble grumble..." I bought her candy and drove home. I tossed it at the foot of the bed as I walked in.
“There,” I snapped in aggravation.
“Where the hell did you go?!” Whorebag demanded indignantly.
“You didn’t move, and the store was going to close soon, so I left. There’s your candy. You got what you wanted. Now I’m going to bed.”
“Don’t act so goddamn pissy! I told you I’d go with you!”
“You didn’t move. You knew I was leaving. You got your freaking candy, so be happy!”
Whorebag grabbed the candy bar and threw it across the room. It hit the opposite wall with a loud “thwack!”
“I don’t want it anymore! Stop acting like I’m a brat!”
How Whorebag was incapable of comprehending the contradiction involved in her behavior, I have no idea. I’m pretty sure that only ungrateful brats throw their candy across the room because they don’t want it anymore!
Little Miss Can’t Be Wrong

Whorebag had a tendency to project her own mental quirks onto me. After the episode with the candy bar, she declared that I should seek psychological counseling because I was unable to see that I was the true cause of all our relationship problems. There had to be something wrong with me, she insisted. Why else would I believe she had ever done anything wrong? In her expert opinion, I almost certainly suffered from attention deficit disorder, and she hinted that I might be bipolar, too. Nobody had ever previously suggested to me that I might have a mental illness, and her accusations started to make me wonder whether or not I really was mentally ill. Few things are more unsettling than wondering if your own sanity is suspect. Whorebag insisted that she only wanted me to seek counseling because she cared about me and wanted me to “get better,” so at her request, I started seeing a psychologist – Doctor Lipsitz.

The sessions were helpful, as they began to make me realize that all was not well in my relationship. I invited Whorebag to come with me to my third session with the psychologist, specifically because I wanted Dr. Lipsitz to see what kind of person I was dealing with at home. Whorebag willingly agreed, and the three of us talked. Actually, Whorebag talked the most, and it was all about the ways in which everything wrong with our relationship – and indeed her life – was my fault. Afterwards, the doctor told me that Whorebag was, at the very least, overly critical of me and didn’t seem very supportive at all. She gently suggested to me that I was in fact the highly reasonable partner in the relationship, and that perhaps Whorebag wasn’t a “stable” personality to be paired with.

As time went on, I began to see her more and more as an entirely self-centered, manipulative, and vicious liar. In hindsight, Whorebag was probably two steps away from being an entry-level psychopath. It’s ironic therefore that she insisted I seek psychological help, as without it I might never have seen her for what she was. The more I talked with Dr. Lipsitz, the more Whorebag’s behavior began to scare me, 

and it slowly dawned on me that my mental and physical well-being might very well be on the line if I stayed with her.



Whorebag the Abuser

When I love a woman with all my heart, I’ll be faithful and stick by her through the tough times. It took me so long to break up with Whorebag because not only was I madly in love with her, I felt I was being a good and dependable fiancé by weathering the storm by her side. I didn’t want to be the type of guy who’d dump a woman just because things weren’t going so well at a given moment. Unfortunately, as time went on, I discovered that all the things about Whorebag I’d initially thought were beautiful were instead part of a living mosaic of fraud. Any attempt on my part to extract sane behavior from her would be met with a tempestuous ocean of lies and a seething broth of counter-accusations.

Whorebag was, at her core, an emotional abuser. I say this not because I wish to elicit sympathy from you, the reader. I say it because it was only after coming across an online article about the common traits of female abusers that I was shocked to my senses. Every assertion the article made was filled with familiarity, and I was horrified to find that I could see a portrait of the woman I loved emerging more and more clearly the further I read.

Whorebag would constantly lie to me, often over trivial matters. She was unable to accept responsibility for her own actions and would always blame the nearest convenient target for her failures. She would scream in my face for hours, working herself into a frenzy in order to avoid realities she did not wish to acknowledge. She had made insinuations that I was mentally ill for refusing to accept blame for any and all inconveniences in her life. Worst of all, she would invent stories to discredit me, or damage my reputation in front of others. In fact, this last point would eventually become the straw that broke the camel’s back in our relationship.

Whorebag also felt it was perfectly justifiable to do illegal and destructive things as revenge to those she felt had wronged her, and she had also surrounded herself with like-minded people. When one of her closest friends, Janice, broke up with her “jerk” of a boyfriend, she and Whorebag went for a drive at 3:00 AM. Janice brought a brick with her, and as Whorebag drove, Janice hurled it through the back window of her ex’s car. The two of them drove off, squealing at the thrill of what they’d done.

If the above criteria describe a female abuser, then I was caught in an abusive relationship. I don’t consider myself a victim however, and I’m not asking for anybody to feel sorry for me. I didn’t stay with Whorebag for so long because I’m a self-loathing masochist with no self-esteem: I stayed because I truly loved her and wanted to build a successful relationship together. For the longest time, I really felt that our problems could be dealt with, and in the back of my mind, I hoped that Whorebag would eventually just grow out of her more childish habits. I know that sounds stupid in retrospect, but when you love someone, you often find it hard to believe that they’re incapable of changing for the better. Nevertheless, when it became clear I had to leave, I made the necessary decision and followed through with it.


The Final Nail

Whorebag had tried to drive a wedge between my brother and I for quite some time, as he was one of the few people on my side of the relationship who would hold her accountable for her behavior. Her last attempt to alienate him from my life was to be the final nail in the coffin of our relationship.
She decided to make conversation with him about perverted and bizarre sexual fetishes that I’d supposedly been secretly hiding for years. She fed him total and complete fabrications about my deviant sexual predilections, and acted like it was all in good fun. When I found out, I became extremely angry at her for doing something so reckless that, had my brother been less level-headed, could have completely ruined my reputation among friends and family. I was so furious, I put a large amount of physical distance between Whorebag and myself so I wouldn’t risk losing my temper. I spent eight hours at work in order to cool off.

Late in the day I got a call on my cellphone from Whorebag. She sounded cautious.
“Are you okay?” she asked.
“I can’t talk now.” I was surrounded by co-workers, so I couldn’t scream at her down the phone.
“You were mad when you left. Are you sure you’re okay?” she asked again. I didn’t want to talk to her.
“I’ll be okay. It’s not a good time right now. I’ve got to go,” I said and hung up.
I stared at my phone for a moment and then felt heat shoot upwards into my head. No longer able to contain myself, I did something I’d never done before – I immediately went home and started yelling.
“What the hell did you think you were doing?! I’m so angry at you! My God, why the flying fuck would you lie to my brother?! Why the fuck are you trying to humiliate me?! Where the hell do you get the nerve?!” I shouted. I don’t like yelling or getting angry, but I was well past the point of rationality. Whorebag needed to be told off for once, and I was going to make damn sure she knew she’d crossed the line.

”Half the time, you act like you don’t give a shit about me! I do SO FUCKING MUCH FOR YOU, AND THIS IS HOW YOU SHOW YOUR LOVE FOR ME?!” I hollered at the top of my lungs.
Whorebag reacted by trying to scare me into line. She threw a screaming fit and started throwing dishes around. She played the hurt, innocent victim. She insisted she didn’t know that lying to my brother would make me angry, and it was all just a big joke. She tried to steal the argument’s initiative by slinging counter-accusations back at me. She tried to guilt-trip me into apologizing for my alleged wrongdoings. This time, none of it worked – I kept yelling at her exactly how I felt as I trembled with rage.
“NO, SHUT UP! YOU’VE HAD THIS COMING FOR A LONG TIME!” I shouted. “YOU’RE GOING TO SHUT UP AND LISTEN TO ME FOR ONCE!”
Whorebag collapsed into a corner and started bawling, intent on displaying how hurt she was. When this failed to move me, she kept right on bawling... and bawling.
“I’m sorry!” she cried. “Okay? Are you happy now?! I’m SORRY for what I did! I can’t go back and change it! WHAT DO YOU WANT ME TO DO?! WHY THE HELL DO YOU BLAME ME FOR EVERYTHING?!”

In Whorebag’s mind, I had to shrug off her actions as a fait acompli. If only I’d stop being so mean, everything would be fine. She kept weeping and weeping, hoping that I might take pity on her and retract my angry statements before begging her forgiveness. I stood silently and watched her cry. I checked the clock. Fifteen full minutes of crying passed.

Noticing that she was not getting the desired compliance from me despite a quarter-hour of bawling, Whorebag decided to switch tactics. She started scratching herself with her fingernails; hard. Then, she began butting her head against the wall. As dismaying and unpleasant as the spectacle was, she’d done this a few times in past arguments, so I knew better than to try to restrain her. As much as I wanted to, it would only encourage her to fight harder to keep doing it. If that seems sick to you, it’s because it is. Her behavior, rather than eliciting sympathy from me, now only evoked disgust and fear as I watched with a kind of awful curiosity. The person in front of me no longer bore any resemblance to the woman I’d fallen in love with.

After observing Whorebag’s wretched display for another fifteen minutes, I finally spoke up with deliberate calmness. “Cry all you want, I don’t feel sorry for you. You’re not the victim here. You lied to my brother and slandered me behind my back. I can no longer trust you and I can not forgive you. You’re going to call him right now and tell him that everything you said was all a lie.”

She raised her head, eyes red with tears. “I said I’m sorry!” she screamed. “I said I didn’t know that I shouldn’t make jokes with your brother! How the hell was I supposed to know that would make you so mad? I didn’t KNOW!”
“You don’t have to be a rocket scientist to know that you’re not supposed to make up outrageous stories about your fiancé,” I replied with a derisive snort.

“Why the hell won’t you accept my apologies?!” she demanded. “You’re so fucking insensitive! I said I’m sorry, ALL RIGHT! I’M SORRYYYYYYYYYY!!!!” she hollered as if it were some kind of magic word to make everything better. “ARE YOU HAPPY NOW THAT YOU’VE HURT ME?!” she demanded hysterically.
I raised my voice and started talking over her.
“Yeah, it makes me really happy to make you cry. I just love making you cry because I’m an evil bastard and you’re an innocent little victim who never does anything wrong,” I snorted. “I am not accepting apologies today. I can not forgive you! Got it? I can’t fucking trust you to interact with my family. You weren’t just playing a joke, you’re a damned liar!”

“No, you’re the liar!” she screeched. “You told me you were ‘okay’ on the phone at work!”

Ugh, this was going nowhere. I watched with detached antipathy as Whorebag launched into a nonstop torrent of accusations. There was a line in the sand, and she’d crossed it long ago. I no longer had any interest in dealing with her infantile tantrum, and my thoughts started to turn towards a future without her. I’d already tuned out her crazed litany of charges against me, but somewhere in her stream of incendiary venom, she suddenly bellowed,
“...AND I’M PREGNANT!”
The world stopped. The words hung like gunsmoke in the air.
“W- what did you say?” I replied in disbelief.

“I’m pregnant!”
The moment of silence between us was deafening.
“When were you planning on telling me this exactly?!” I finally managed to ask.
“I found out yesterday!”
“But... your birth control?”
“I stopped using it!”
I was incredulous. “What?! You’re pregnant and this is how you tell me?!”
Whorebag stood up as tears continued to flow down her cheeks. “I was still deciding what to do! I didn’t know how to tell you!” She started pounding her stomach. “I’ll get rid of this unwanted thing though, if that’s what you want!”
I stood in front of her, unable to respond. Was this another lie? Was this just another attempt to regain emotional control over me? I just didn’t know anymore. Shaken, I left our apartment and spent a sleepless night at a friend’s house.


Bearing the Unbearable, I Finally Snap
My rational side knew I had to leave Whorebag, but my emotional side still wanted to love her. A painful schism erupted within my psyche as the two halves of me went to war with each other. Whorebag had revealed herself to be a selfish, screwed-up bitch who didn’t give a flying fuck about me, and something had to crack. Emotionally, I’d say it was the most traumatic, wounding experience of my life.

I finally made the decision to break up with Whorebag. I would do it, but I would have to override my love for her in the process. To this day, words cannot describe the pain I felt. My heart was writhing and screaming in such intense, mind-destroying agony that I would rather have died. For the first time in my life, I truly wanted to end it all rather than go on experiencing the continual ripping sensation that was going on inside me. All the words in the English language can not convey the slightest hint of the massive, soul-destroying misery that I was experiencing that day. I think this was the closest I’ve ever come to completely losing my grip on reality.

I had parked my car in an isolated alley overnight. As soon as I unlocked the doors and hopped in, I began to cry. At first, I simply sat there alone, crying. Then I began to realize I couldn’t stop. I just kept crying and crying and crying. I was hysterical with bereavement. I had no idea that I had so many tears in me. They just kept coming and coming, and there was no way to stop them no matter what I did. I tried taking deep breaths to calm myself, but about three seconds after settling down I would start to cry again. I hyperventilated so much, I almost passed out a few times. I began to think I’d gone totally insane with grief.

I had hit rock bottom. My crying wasn’t quiet, dignified sobbing – I was in hysterics. My life felt like it was over. I immediately tried to schedule an emergency session with my psychologist for later that afternoon, but I could barely make myself understood to the receptionist. I wept into my cellphone that I thought I was going crazy, and demanded to speak with Dr. Lipsitz as soon as possible. When my appointment time came, I managed to calm down enough to drive there, but my eyes were so clouded and swollen I almost got into a traffic accident. With massive effort, I managed to stop the tears long enough to get into the doctor’s office, but when I walked in and opened my mouth to say something, I immediately lost control and started crying again. Doctor Lipsitz took me into her office and tried to pacify me, but it was nearly futile.

“I! CAN’T! STOP! CRYING!” I bawled. “I! CAN’T! STOP!” I shuddered and collapsed on the couch in a miserable heap, seemingly having lost the ability to do anything but cry. “I! WANT! TO! DIE!” My arms flailed and pounded uselessly against the couch. I didn’t know how all of this unbearable anguish was gushing out of me. It was as if someone had turned on a fire hose of horrible feelings and the control valve was jammed in the “full blast” position.

Doctor Lipsitz told me to take deep breaths. I inhaled slowly... and then burst into tears yet again. It was the most horrible sensation I’ve ever experienced.

“CAN’T! STO- OH GAWD! WANT! TO! DIE! WANT! TO! DIEEEEEE!” I squealed.

In between further bouts of frenzied weeping, I gradually managed to convey to Dr. Lipsitz that I had decided to end my relationship with Whorebag. I told her I knew I had to leave, but that the pain was unbearable. The doctor told me that I had made the right decision, and that, indeed, Whorebag was neither stable nor trustworthy, and that there was no way our relationship could survive. My bawling slowly lessened.

I left her later that day with the help of Whorebag’s parents.
I Did the Right Thing

Remembering that week is just horrible for me. I never want to be that much of a wreck ever again. My stomach wouldn’t hold anything without making me feel physically ill, and I barely slept. Yet, I was so madly in love with such a clearly psycho woman, that breaking up with her nearly drove me over the edge. If anything though, the whole experience proved to me that psychologically, I probably wouldn’t react very well to a divorce.

It was tough, but I know I did the right thing. By leaving Whorebag, I managed to regain control over my life. I dodged a bullet. She definitely would have divorced me after a few years, or worse, she might have even tried to kill me. Furthermore, when she divorced me, Whorebag wouldn’t have been satisfied with taking half my stuff – she’d have wanted everything. She was slowly destroying me and wouldn’t have stopped until there was nothing left.

Whorebag’s parents were good to me until the very end. They confessed on that final day that they had been wondering how long I’d continue to tolerate a relationship with their daughter. They also realized that my decision to leave was the correct one. Nevertheless, they also had a responsibility to Whorebag. They pointed out how I wasn’t right for her. How, indeed, I only cared about my job and that she needed to be with someone who was a better match. Publicly, they took her side; they had to.


As she packed her stuff and prepared to vacate our apartment, her parents were there trying to keep order. She went through my closet, gathering up her clothes while throwing mine on the floor. I was reminded of the scene in Dr. Zhivago where poor Muscovites invade the house and bust up the furniture for firewood, slinging insults as the Zhivagos stand there watching, unable to say or do anything.

Whorebag’s parents tried to rein in her verbal vitriol, but with little success. As she gathered up her things and put them in boxes, she kept making angry verbal jabs at me. “Are you a fag? Have you turned into a goddamn fag or something?!” she sneered. “You motherfucking bastard! You’ve ruined my life! How could you do this?!” she spat as she threw one of my souvenirs from Taiwan on the floor.

I shakily asked for her engagement ring back, but Whorebag refused to give it to me. She snarled that she deserved to keep it as “compensation” for the “wasted” years we’d spent together. With uncharacteristic heat, her mother walked up and literally pried that $7,000 sucker off her finger and handed it back to me. Whorebag scowled blackly at the both of us and continued packing her stuff. Thankfully, she wasn’t able steal any of my other valuables with her parents there, keeping an eye on her.

As she walked out of my apartment for the last time, Whorebag threw one final insult in my direction. “Let’s go. I need a real man in my life.”


America: Love It and Leave It

So why shouldn’t I flee the anti-male bigotry which is so pervasive in American society? I’m not exaggerating when I say this: American males do live under circumstances equivalent to bigotry, only we’ve been raised to “take it like a man.” Trying to interact normally with American women is almost like aversion therapy. As I’ve said many times before, I live in a society where it is peachy-keen for a woman to knee me in the balls and spout hate in my face. A female co-worker could demolish any man’s career by uttering a false accusation that would be impossible for him to disprove. Distressingly, neither men nor women seem inclined to fight for real equality instead of the selective, lopsided, faux-equality crap that American women have designed for their own exclusive benefit. I don’t want to live among misandric bigots, dammit!


Moving to Japan

My third motivation for leaving the United States was to escape the anti-male bigotry that continues to flood every aspect of life there. That’s Real Reason Number Three.


//
“Yes, it is!” he laughed. “And every time I see it, it always makes me wonder if there’s a shortage of good women in the U.S. or something. I mean, why the hell would any man put up with the kind of shit they parade around on that show?!”
I chuckled. “I’ve run across quite a few women in the U.S. who’d scare you back to Auckland. It’s easier if you just remember that any time an American woman does something that makes you feel angry, it must be because of a personal problem that you have, and it has absolutely nothing to do with her behavior, which is always flawless. Just remember that rule, and American women will be perfect in every possible way!”

Miles took another swig of his beer. “I’ve never been to America, but I always got the impression that the chicks there have taken the whole ‘women’s lib’ thing a little too far.” He paused for a moment to finish the bottle, then continued. “You know, in New Zealand they recently passed a law that’s sparked a lot of debate. If two people live together for two years, its legally considered the same as marriage. Supposedly it was to give legal status to gay relationships, but it can really be abused by women. I mean, say that your girlfriend lives with you for two years... well, she automatically owns half your stuff after that point!”

“Really?!” I replied with astonishment. “Holy crap, what a great deal! For her, I mean. That concept is totally mind-blowing! A Kiwi guy doesn’t even need to get married and divorced to have half his stuff taken away. He just needs his live-in girlfriend to break up with him!”

“That’s right!” Miles snorted. “She can move in to your place with nothing, and two years later she gets half your bank account. Why would any guy agree to that? It’s legalized theft!” He shrugged dramatically. “If a woman sleeps with a man for one night and gets a hundred dollars, that’s illegal, but if a woman sleeps with a man for two years and gets a quarter million dollars, it’s legal!”

“My god, you’re totally right!” I slapped my knee as I laughed. “That’s totally fucked up! Hold on though. Doesn’t the guy get half the woman’s stuff, too?”
“Yeah, that’s how it works in theory. But in practice, no. 

Think about it... what woman will have a relationship with a man who’s got less money than she does?” He chuckled and cracked another beer. “Women tend to go for the guys with cash in their pockets.”
“That’s true.” I nodded sagely. “You’re forgetting the exception though. A woman will go for a guy with no money if...”

“If he’s a TOTAL ASSHOLE!” we shouted together, pointing our fingers at each other and laughing.
Miles clapped me on the shoulder. “Well, now you’re surrounded by a different sort. Some would say that Japanese girls are the premium brand of human females.”
I secretly hoped he was right.


Politeness
Everyone in Michinoshi is very polite. That’s not surprising, as this is something that Japan is famous for, but there were many differences compared to my experiences in Taiwan, which threw me a bit at first. Sure, Taiwanese people are polite too, but it’s a different kind of polite.
Somebody once told me that, “politeness involves considerable lying.” That’s true in pretty much any country. Since Japanese people are extremely polite, does that somehow make them less trustworthy? Not at all. I mean, how many fast food clerks in the U.S. actually mean it when they say, “have a nice day?” Not many, but it’s always nice to hear them say it nonetheless. I think it might be a little less cynical to say that politeness involves considerable self-restraint out of respect for others’ feelings. I’ve always been brought up to believe that consideration for others was far more important than whatever minimal amount of lying might be required. When people around you are generally polite, you feel an incentive to be polite back. It raises the bar for acceptable public behavior for everyone, and that’s a good thing. Under pressure to behave my very best, I certainly felt a heightened civilizing influence.

On the flip side of the coin, there’s little to no tradition of kindness to strangers, unless you happen to be a foreigner, which is a shame. In general, the rules are slightly different for gaijin: I’m not expected to bow and scrape before my department head, for one. A general rule of thumb for foreigners is to say, “thank you” and “excuse me” at least three times as often as you normally would at home.

The women in my new company were very, very polite. They were also very gentle and dainty. They fussed over arranging their desks neatly and were fastidious in having their makeup look perfect. They also spoke with high-pitched voices that made them sound, for lack of a better word, cute. It was refreshingly endearing. Though many of my co-workers were already married, there were a few who weren’t. I had no plans to approach them for dates however as it would have been unprofessional of me to make a move and was against company policy. That was a shame, because quite a number of them were well-educated, friendly and very beautiful.

My new female co-workers were talented, smart, hard-working career girls, but they hadn’t given up their femininity to get there. They were so distinctly unlike the vulgar, “proud to be a bitch” she-beasts back home. An American chick might have called my co-workers “girlie-girls” and said that I was a chauvinist who was only attracted to weak women, but they’d be wrong. American women act like being polite and feminine must be a sign of weakness, but Japanese women certainly show that up for the lie it is. Honestly, what heterosexual man would be attracted to a woman who gets off on denigrating him?


A Sacred Vow
 
 
Not long after settling into life in Japan I began to realize that the idea of marrying an American woman terrified me. The realization shocked me at first. Did I feel this way because I was incapable of settling down? Was I unable to deal with notions of sexual monogamy? Perhaps I was afraid of commitment? No, it was none of those things. It was because it had become clear to me that marrying an American woman was most likely prepping your marriage for failure.

It’s a sad fact that in America, something like 60 percent of marriages end in divorce. Even more sad is that roughly 75 percent of divorces are initiated by the woman over the man’s objections. If we do the math to combine these percentages, we find out there is around a 45 percent chance that whenever a man gets married to an American woman, she will unilaterally decide to divorce him at some point. You’d have a better chance of surviving Russian roulette! Furthermore, men are three to four times more likely to commit suicide in the two years following a divorce than women. Russian roulette, indeed.

Marrying an American woman is a risky activity for guys, and the biggest disincentive for marriage lies within the women themselves. The numbers reveal that they are family-wreckers. What do American women want more: a husband, or a house full of fancy appliances? Well, they often act as if their appliances are worth more than the “useless” human lumps they’re saddled with. Think about it – there is a more than two-in-five chance that an American woman is incapable of mustering the love and commitment needed to make a marriage work. So why marry one? Would you ever stick your hand in a garbage disposal unit if there was a two-in-five chance of someone suddenly hitting the ON switch? Marrying an American woman fails a simple cost/benefit analysis, and is probably one of the worst things you could ever do with your life.

Women often plan their divorces carefully in advance, and many men say they are stunned when the bomb suddenly drops. Many had no idea the marriage was even in trouble! Naturally, the assumption everyone makes is that men must be boneheads to not pick up on the subtle cues that their wife is unhappy, but is it really because men are insensitive, unfeeling idiots, or is it more likely that women are simply quite good at being secretive in their machinations? Despite the fact that women claim it is men who can’t communicate, many women deliberately lie to their husbands about the state of their marriage right up until the last minute.

I can only conclude that marrying an American woman means she will only be with you as long as she can get utility out of you, and whenever it strikes her fancy, she will kick you to the curb.


I Make a Sacred Vow
An idea began to solidify in my mind. It had flitted through my consciousness at times, but I’d never completely articulated it before: I realized I could never allow an American woman to marry me. I’d written off the entire American female populace as being unfit for committed marriage. I’d always left open the possibility that maybe by some miracle there was an American woman out there for me, but a sober assessment of the numbers just made it too risky. It made much more sense to pursue a lower-risk woman – a woman from a culture that actually takes marriage seriously. A Japanese woman perhaps?

Some countries do have higher divorce rates than the United States. A few of the former Eastern Bloc nations have divorce rates of nearly 70 percent, however most of those countries have experienced extreme levels of economic strife, social dislocation, political turmoil, and heightened levels of crime. America, however, is a society with a relatively functional economy where public services aren’t breaking down left and right, and where lawlessness isn’t rampant. Women in the U.S. have no extreme circumstances that would put their families under severe stress, so why are American women breaking up their families in such numbers?

There are perfectly legitimate reasons for an American woman to leave her husband: domestic violence, infidelity, substance abuse... just to name a few. But is the man always necessarily the problem? I don’t think so. I’ve frequently seen American women justify their divorces with a number of relatively petty complaints, such as feeling ’trapped’ in an unhappy relationship, or that not enough of her ’needs’ were being met, or that her husband was spending too much time at work.

It seems that whenever a divorced American woman talks about her ex-husband, it’s always unequivocally his fault that she decided to jettison the relationship. Her overweening belief in her own righteousness will start to bleed through quite clearly, and she will paint herself as the victim at the center of the drama, even though she was the one who planned the divorce, initiated it, and carried it out. Never does any responsibility to improve or even work on the relationship fall on her shoulders. In the worst cases, a woman might fabricate stories about the man abusing her and the children; I know for a fact that some of the more crooked divorce lawyers secretly encourage their clients to do this. The man must always be the evildoer, and she the victim who needs help and sympathy. Not once will she admit things like, “I found another man I liked more,” or, “I was bored with the relationship.”

To make matters worse, the American legal system gives women a financial incentive to divorce. There are a huge number of greedy, opportunistic lawyers in America who earn their daily bread by stripping ex-husbands of their savings. After your divorce, a huge chunk of your property and future earnings are basically considered up for grabs. Don’t ever get behind on your monthly payments though – over the last few years the federal government has been relentlessly chasing ’deadbeat dads’ with a vengeance. Within marriage and outside of marriage, men are are being used as walking wallets.

Worst of all, many men find that after divorce they will lose contact with their children while still being obliged to support their ex-wives financially. About 85 percent of the children of divorced parents end up in the custody of their mothers, and the few children that end up in the custody of their fathers only become so after the father has spent thousands of dollars in legal fees trying to prove he’s a fit parent.

The chances are also pretty good that your ex-wife will interfere with your child visitation. Three quarters of divorced men say that their ex-wives have done just that, and about 40 percent of custodial mothers admit to having done so out of a spiteful desire to hurt their ex-husbands.

You could lose your job, or suffer a debilitating injury, and see your income drop, only to have child support and interest pile up into a mountain of debt you can never hope to pay off. You could also be forced to contribute 70 or 80 percent of your income in child support because the court has mistakenly ascribed an unrealistic income to you. Fail to pay, and your wages and tax refund may be garnished, your driver’s license taken away, your new passport application denied, or you could even end up in jail because you could not produce money that does not exist.

By marrying an American woman, you stand a good chance that, against your will, your marriage will end and you will lose contact with your kids. Your assets will be stripped from you, and you will be hounded by lawyers and the State, and required to support your (former) family financially without any right to actually see them.
No wonder so many divorced men end up killing themselves. You’ve got to be an idiot to take that kind of 
risk!

If Love Is Blind, the American Marriage Has Lost All Five Senses

If you’re a guy who gets personal satisfaction from making his woman happy, you’ve probably noticed that American women don’t stay happy for very long, no matter what you do for them. There always seems to be another unsatisfied demand lying around the corner. Yet, you know you’re a great person and have a sincere desire to build a genuine and lasting relationship, so it often isn’t long before frustration sets in. Instead of getting frustrated though, let me say this to you: if an American woman ever rejects you because you have failed to lavish enough pretty baubles on her, be grateful she did it before you were married!

It’s not a big secret that women have a huge amount of ability to command extralegal power and entitlements in the United States. In fact, it is women who set the general rules and conditions for the system of dating, mating, and marriage that we all follow. One of the things that American women need to perpetuate this arrangement is a hardworking, yet quiescent and disposable population of males to follow their self-serving rules. So, why be quiescent?

Divorce law is a system which is ruthless beyond the capacity of any single individual’s resistance; it is a mean system designed to chew you up and spit you out for the woman’s exclusive benefit. You can’t beat their system, so don’t even try. But you can opt out, and there is safety in numbers.

American women represent five percent of the global population of women. Chances are, they’re the bottom five percent in terms of quality because they’re usually sexist, self-centered and demanding, and they divorce you at least 45 percent of the time. With odds like that, I realized it was time to start looking abroad, and perhaps you should too if you’re a marriage-minded American male. By looking abroad, you’re simply giving yourself the best chance to meet the highest quality woman you can possibly find.

Ultimately, you have the ability to say “no” to the folderol that American women have set up for you to swallow, and believe me, it is true folderol. You should always refuse to accept their bullshit, and take comfort in the fact that you can just say “no” and walk away. Whatever an American woman might claim about herself, she is probably unfit to be your wife.


Mutual Respect
 
 
Something happens in Japan on March 14th called “White Day.” On this day, men typically give small presents to women they know as a “thank you” for gifts the men received on Valentine’s Day one month prior. That probably sounds pretty strange if you grew up in a western, English-speaking nation, so let me explain how Valentine’s Day works in Japan.

Valentine’s Day there is a totally artificial holiday that was imported from abroad. In Japan, women give milk chocolate gifts to men they know, usually co-workers. These chocolates are referred to as “giri chocolates” (obligation chocolates).

“White Day,” by contrast, is a Japanese invention: a March counterpart to Valentine’s Day. It’s the day when the men who received milk chocolates on Valentine’s Day give presents back to women as a “thank you.” They don’t have to be chocolate, and are usually slightly more expensive. Actually, the men don’t have to give anybody anything, but it’s considered polite to return the favor.

One day I began to wonder what would happen if this type of custom were introduced in North America. How would people react? Think of it – women being obligated to give something to men before ever, and possibly never, receiving anything in return. The horror! American chicks would hate it! They’d despise it! They’d wail in protest and scream about how “unfair” the whole thing was. It would totally demolish their sense of how the universe ought to be organized.
They would no doubt claim that the chocolates the men received were so much better than whatever lousy gifts they got in return. Men, they would state, receive only the good things in life and women only the bad. Hell, feminists would announce that gift-giving was a form of oppression! That the milk chocolates represent the sweet goodness that women are forced to give to their oppressors, and the return gifts are symbolic of rape and patriarchal domination, or something like that.
White Day wouldn’t last beyond the first year, or if it did, women would demand the government allocate funds to give them two pieces of candy for every piece a man collected. Japan is different, though. There, men and women seem to be capable of mutual respect.
Speaking of mutual respect, I’m reminded of the time Kaori came over to my apartment for dinner just prior to her leaving for Australia. I cooked dinner for the two of us, and we watched some of the Soccer World Cup together. I made Thai green chicken curry with rice, and followed up with a chunky chocolate fondue with strawberries, pineapple and banana slices. The food was very good, if I do say so myself.
Kaori stayed until eleven in the evening. When she left, I walked her from my apartment to the nearest subway station. It was pitch black, and the poorly lit streets were narrow and twisting. We talked all the while, but she spent most of the walk telling me what a good cook I was and how much she’d enjoyed the evening. She also complimented me on having picked up so much Japanese in such a short amount of time. Kaori mentioned she was chilly, so I gave her my long-sleeved sweatshirt to wear. Four days later, she gave the shirt back to me, cleaned and neatly folded, no less.
After I dropped her off, I walked back home totally unconcerned with anything, overcome by an overwhelming blissful peace. The world just seemed “right.” In fact, I was so oddly content, I began to wonder why, and after a while, I think the answer came to me.
It was really simple: at the end of the day, a man wants to feel like he’s appreciated and respected. A show of acknowledgment and gratitude by a woman makes cooking and being chivalrous worthwhile. If she doesn’t show any of either, most men will feel like their efforts have been in vain, and eventually stop trying altogether.
It’s nice to get both appreciation and respect from a woman. Before I arrived in Japan, I’d started to wonder if women were even psychologically capable of those things. The average American female has such an incredibly low opinion of men that she doesn’t notice that nearly every single modern convenience and utility she relies upon has been installed in her home by a man, produced by a man, and was most likely invented by one. She feels that neither appreciation nor respect is due to men at all, and cannot fathom under what circumstances either would be appropriate in any case.
It doesn’t have to be that way. Women are capable of 

expressing gratitude and kindness to the opposite sex – my experiences in Japan are living proof of that. American chicks just choose not to. They have the ability to be civil, yet seem content to be thankless, vulgar pieces of garbage. What’s more, they apparently get so much satisfaction from their bitchiness that they cling to it like it’s their favorite toy; it’s just so much darned fun to call men idiots, isn’t it girls?!
As for me, I’ll stick to the culture that knows what “mutual respect” means, ladies.



At the end of the evening, Haruna drove me home. She told me that her parents liked me very much, and I could tell she was really happy with how the evening went. When we got to my apartment, I kissed her long and hard and then stroked her cheek with my fingertips.

“You are so gorgeous,” I whispered.
“Please, can we go to bed? You look so sexy right now,” she whispered back, snuggling into me.

I don’t like to reveal too much intimate information about our relationship, but something sorely relevant needs to be said here: Haruna is far better in bed than most of the American chicks I’ve slept with in the past. More than a few of them were inept in bed because they really didn’t pay much attention to how much pleasure I was getting. In fact, on more than one occasion, I have faked orgasms with American chicks just so they’d let me go to sleep!

It’s not that Haruna has access to magic erotic secrets, it’s just that she is playful and makes sure that I have a good time too. She cares about my pleasure. It is intimacy I get the most enjoyment from, not orgasm. I love having a woman hold me tight as we make love face to face. I love feeling her warmth next to me. I love hearing her pleasure noises, and I love to stroke her skin afterward. When I want to have sex with a woman, it is primarily because I want to feel her soft touch against my skin and kiss every inch of her body. It is not because I want a meaty hole to dip my wick into. That is, of course, what most of the American media portray men as being concerned with.

Do American women think that they should lie motionless in bed like a starfish? Do they really think that the man should do all the work? Sadly, many of them will never discover the answer to either question, because they have convinced themselves that they have golden vaginas. Don’t get me wrong – this has absolutely nothing to do with my other complaints about American women. Sure, they’re loud, charmless, bigoted and don’t know how to behave appropriately in public, but most seem convinced that their cooters are the most enjoyable thing on the face of the planet, regardless of how much effort they put into pleasing their partners. In Japan on other hand, reciprocity is the order of the day.
My advice to you ladies back home therefore, is when having sex, be sure to go stiff, put your arms at your sides, and let your man go to work until he tires himself out. He just wants a hole to put his pee-pee in, after all. Naturally, you should inform your boyfriend as to your body’s sensitive spots by criticizing his performance as rudely as possible. That’s the ticket to better sex.


The Search for Sanity
 
 
There’s something to be said about having the last laugh. I remember, years back, when I first entered the grand game of courtship, dating, sex and relationships. I had one simple wish: To be a great boyfriend to the right girl.
Sappy as it may sound, it was true. I wanted to be a great boyfriend. I wanted to be the best boyfriend I could possibly be, and to meet a woman who wanted to be the same for me. It was a desire that was completely and totally genuine.
Alas, even such an unobjectionable wish has no Yellow Brick Road to follow. It’s clear to me now that if you desire a loving, fulfilling, and lasting relationship with a woman, then trying to achieve that with one who was brought up in the United States is probably not a very good bet. American women throw away good men and relationships as a matter of course. Most American women don’t really know what they want, either. Despite their piously-professed statements to the contrary, they don’t seem to want an equal partnership. For many, “true” equality, in a loving relationship of mutual respect and accountability is way too bitter and painful a pill to swallow.
These women avoid men who could actually be good to them, and instead vainly search for a partner with a glossy veneer of wealth, appearance, social status, and whatever else might happen to be on their mile-long, ever-changing list of contradictory “must-haves.”

If you are a man, you could do far better by not limiting yourself to that particularly shallow pool. You don’t have to consider yourself a worthless loser just because you lack a few items on an ever-changing list. You don’t have to go through the pain and frustration of trying to keep up with constant contradictory demands. You have other, better options to pursue.


Living in the World

Mercifully, endlessly-customizable, buffet-style feminism is primarily the trait of the modern American woman and some of her sisters in the western world. Only they have the expectation that a long-term relationship with someone means that the man will be doing half the housework while buying all of the diamonds. In her eyes, he must fulfill all of his traditional obligations, while hers vanish into the ether. This ideology provides a kind of ready-made personality; if anyone criticizes it, that criticism is interpreted as a personal attack on their identity. Moreover, it doesn’t really emphasize men and women resolving any problems. It just frames every problem as being the fault of men, and demands that they be punished and women compensated in some way.

Thankfully, it is possible to escape the Land of the Losers. If I could go back in time and do things differently, I think I would have become an expatriate much earlier than I actually did. Immediately after getting my masters’ degree, perhaps.

If someone had asked me back in college, “What do you want to be doing ten or fifteen years from now?” I would have replied with some variation of: “I want to study languages and travel around in my spare time. Preferably, I’d like to do that while living and working somewhere interesting.”

Today I am doing basically that. I am, as time goes by, seeing the places that I have always wanted to see. Over the past few years, I’ve been around Europe, Africa, the Near

East, countries of the former Soviet Union and many other places. Sometimes I went with Haruna, sometimes with friends and colleagues, and sometimes by myself. I’ve spent years acquiring memorable experiences, and best of all, I haven’t worried about money in a long time. I would much rather spend my income on experiencing life and the world than on the newest smartphone or a McMansion in some anonymous suburb.

Have you ever hiked across the sand dunes of the Arabian desert? Have you ever had shots of Akvavit and a great open-faced sandwich at Amagertorv Square in Copenhagen? Or a cold beer while watching the sun set across the Mekong River? Those are the moments that you will never forget. At the end of the day you’ll reflect on what a breathtaking and unique experience you’ve just had instead of wondering why you paid for dinner and showed your date an amazing time only to receive a patting hug and a “don’t call me, I’ll call you.”

Let me not paint too rosy a picture – being an expat is not for everybody; some people simply can’t make the change that it demands. You will not merely be replicating your current existence in a different place, but undergoing a thorough transformation. It requires you to uproot yourself, leave familiar people and your community behind, and strike out in places where you may be, to a certain extent, on your own. You might not be able to leave every last one of your problems behind, either.

Depending on where you want to live, the quality of life might be a great deal lower than wherever you are right 


Living in the World

Mercifully, endlessly-customizable, buffet-style feminism is primarily the trait of the modern American woman and some of her sisters in the western world. Only they have the expectation that a long-term relationship with someone means that the man will be doing half the housework while buying all of the diamonds. In her eyes, he must fulfil all of his traditional obligations, while hers vanish into the ether. This ideology provides a kind of ready-made personality; if anyone criticizes it, that criticism is interpreted as a personal attack on their identity. Moreover, it doesn’t really emphasize men and women resolving any problems. It just frames every problem as being the fault of men, and demands that they be punished and women compensated in some way.
Thankfully, it is possible to escape the Land of the Losers. If I could go back in time and do things differently, I think I would have become an expatriate much earlier than I actually did. Immediately after getting my masters’ degree, perhaps.
If someone had asked me back in college, “What do you want to be doing ten or fifteen years from now?” I would have replied with some variation of: “I want to study languages and travel around in my spare time. Preferably, I’d like to do that while living and working somewhere interesting.”
Today I am doing basically that. I am, as time goes by, seeing the places that I have always wanted to see. Over the past few years, I’ve been around Europe, Africa, the Near 

East, countries of the former Soviet Union and many other places. Sometimes I went with Haruna, sometimes with friends and colleagues, and sometimes by myself. I’ve spent years acquiring memorable experiences, and best of all, I haven’t worried about money in a long time. I would much rather spend my income on experiencing life and the world than on the newest smartphone or a McMansion in some anonymous suburb.
Have you ever hiked across the sand dunes of the Arabian desert? Have you ever had shots of Akvavit and a great open-faced sandwich at Amagertorv Square in Copenhagen? Or a cold beer while watching the sun set across the Mekong River? Those are the moments that you will never forget. At the end of the day you’ll reflect on what a breathtaking and unique experience you’ve just had instead of wondering why you paid for dinner and showed your date an amazing time only to receive a patting hug and a “don’t call me, I’ll call you.”
Let me not paint too rosy a picture – being an expat is not for everybody; some people simply can’t make the change that it demands. You will not merely be replicating your current existence in a different place, but undergoing a thorough transformation. It requires you to uproot yourself, leave familiar people and your community behind, and strike out in places where you may be, to a certain extent, on your own. You might not be able to leave every last one of your problems behind, either.
Depending on where you want to live, the quality of life might be a great deal lower than wherever you are right 


Final Advice
I never give any advice I’m not willing to follow myself. To that end, I’d like to share the following with you, because sometimes simple knowledge can be hard-won. Firstly, take good care of yourself. Secondly, don’t sacrifice your dreams for others. Thirdly, enjoy your life. You only get one, so try to make it a hell of an interesting ride if you can. Lastly, if you’re trapped in a madhouse, it really does help to laugh at the lunacy while you’re trying to break out.


The Voyage Home
 
 
The late August sun was shining down on Haruna and I. It was warm, but not hot, and the steady zephyrs made the day a perfect occasion for chilled white wine outdoors.

The two of us were sitting together on a blanket in the tall grass halfway between the edge of the woods and my deceased grandmother’s country home. Slightly over an hour beyond the outskirts of my hometown, it sat on forty acres with thick clusters of trees and brush around its periphery. The glade around us had a park-like appearance and was quiet except for the wind and the distant birds.

The house and its property had been left to my parents after my grandma had died late the previous year, so my girlfriend and I had decided to spend a weekend alone there. We lay next to each other, looking up at the clouds. Beside us sat a half-empty bottle of Chardonnay and two glasses. At our feet was a fat wicker basket filled with brie and baguettes. She and I were discussing some of the finer points of the transliteration of English city names into Japanese.

“So it’s not ‘Detoroito.’ It’s ‘Detroit.’ Right?” she asked.
“Right,” I replied.
She looked kind of puzzled. “But I can’t say ‘Tront?’”
“No, it’s ‘Toronto.’ The same as in Japanese,” I chuckled as I ran my fingers through her black hair.
“That’s confusing.”

“There’s no rule. They’re just two different names.” I reached over and started rummaging around in the basket with my free hand. “More brie?”
“No, I’m fine.” Haruna inhaled deeply, still looking up at the sky. “I like it here,” she whispered.
“In the winter, the house is warmer than you might think. We could experience the wonders of sherry drinking by the fireplace together,” I smiled.
“The vegetable garden needs work,” she observed, parting the long grass with one arm to look at the garden plot some fifty yards away from us.
“Yeah, it hasn’t been tended in a few years. My grandmother couldn’t really manage here on her own in the end,” I sighed. “By the way, you can’t really see them from here, but there are a bunch of blackberry bushes at the back. Have you ever had blackberry pie?”
“No?”
“I think I’ve got the recipe somewhere. I should make one for you.” I smiled and kissed her palm, but paused as a melancholy thought crossed my mind.

An Uncertain Future

“What’s wrong?” Haruna asked.
“I just… I don’t really see a future for us here. In this country, I mean. There are just too many… ugly things. Depressing things. I feel like I’m wasting my time.” I leaned over and kissed my girlfriend’s forehead.
“In some ways I’m happier here,” Haruna replied. She was no doubt referring to the previous week when we’d visited the beach.

She and I had laid out towels under a tree and gone frolicking in the surf. She’d snuggled by my side in an orange bikini as we swam, splashed, and dunked each other in the waves. She’d hooked her arms around me, locked her legs around my middle, and rode on my back.

“You’re my dolphin!” Haruna had cooed, nuzzling into me in the cutest way humanly possible. It had been so much fun, I’d laughed out loud; she had helped me fulfill a long-cherished dream I’d had. For years, I’d wanted to frolic in the surf with the woman I loved, but had never been able to coax any of my American girlfriends into visiting the beach.

I smiled at the memory and then looked back at Haruna.
“You’ve been working in the U.S. for nearly a year now, right?” I asked her knowingly. Lacking a Green Card, she’d been doing volunteer work at a museum.
“Right.”
“So you know your co-workers pretty well by now, right?”
“Yes,” she nodded.
“Tell me about them.”
The expression on her face turned sour. “My supervisor’s a bitch. She’s rude to everyone for no reason! And my co-workers don’t care about doing a good job – they’re always five minutes late and they leave five minutes early. Then there’s the fact that they don’t want to get their hands dirty... Plus, they always complain about meaningless, useless things.”
“Anything else?” I prodded.
“They say mean things about a person after they leave the room. I’m pretty sure that when I’m not around they’re saying mean things about me, too.”
“So your co-workers have a juvenile addiction to complaining?” I asked. “And they act like someone stuck an eggbeater into their heads and scrambled up their brains?”
“Yes! They’re like children! It’s like they’re twelve!” Haruna replied.
“Close your eyes,” I instructed her.
“Okay.”
“Now, can you imagine marrying one of your co-workers?” I placed both hands on her cheeks. Haruna opened her eyes and laughed. “That would be terrible! If I were a man, there’s no way I’d marry one of them. I’d probably kill myself!”

I took her hands in mine to convey my sincerity. “And can you imagine bringing up children in a country filled with people just like that?” I concluded.
“Oh… Oh no...”
“THANK YOU, GOD! SHE GETS IT!” I yelled at the sky.
Haruna smiled, and then made a face of disapproval. “What’s wrong with the women in this country?” she asked reflectively.

I looked at her and paused for a moment, pondering how to answer her question – the same question I’d been asking myself for a very long time. As the realization came to me that it no longer mattered, I turned to the empty glasses beside us and picked up the bottle of Chardonnay.
“Who knows. More wine?”




