// You can have laws but if they are not enforced, they mean nothing.
ex: 
- If my wife hits me, can I hit her back ?
- No, you cannot. Hitting someone is considered and assault in Canada, and that is a criminal offense.
You do not want to assault another human being. YOu can protect yourself if someone is coming at you 
but you are not allowed to physically hit someone else.
- So how do you protect yourself ?


// Everything she lacks she makes up in denial.

// You go up the mountain to train, so when you are on your own you can make it.
Nobody likes an old infant, when women age, by 30-35 better have a family or else the future is bleak.

// We have been handed lies about women, from media, culture, etc, other women, that they are angels. Peaceful, polite, graceful, patient, lovable, kind, understanding, nonjudgmental creatures by default. They don't take a shit, they don't fart, they are better then males and are incapable of violence.
This is a fantasy, try to build a relationship on this and it will not be fine.

// Marriage and relationships
There is a lie about marriage and relationships that if you meet the "Right guy" you existential pain will disappear along with anxiety and a lot of other negative stuff. You will feel fulfilled ,happy and loved, 24/7 your life will be rose petals and butterflies in the tummy, YOU WILL AUTOMATICALLY BE A BETTER PERSON WITHOUT DOING ANYTHING. Unfortunately that's not true. Marriage is like receiving a medal for a race you didn't participate in. So you didn't go through the process that changes you into a better person but you have the medal. The medal is symbolic and has the role to remind you of the process you went through. By remembering the difficulties you endured and overcame, you will feel better at the knowledge that the process made you a better version of yourself. That good feeling can be used to power other useful activities. Unfortunately the medal alone serves no purpose other than delusion. It's the road, the process that makes you a better person. The end goal is just something you aim for so you have a direction. 

To be a better person it's inside not outside. So outside things can't change you inside, you have to change yourself. A solution to all your current and future problems all at once from the outside served on a silver platter by a man is the fantasy a lot of women have. Unfortunately it's a fantasy that never had come true and never will.

//
A lot of women think they are awesome by simply existing.

//
Women see men as a commodity(marfa), when men don't want to commit anymore, what ti means is the price has gotten up and women complain.

// The brain is not design to be satiated
Clearly not everyone has precisely the same immediate reaction to every orgasm. Women often report that the first orgasm just makes them feel ready for the next one. Is this a vestige of some mammalian forebears’ program to gather sperm from as many donors as possible—while satiated sperm donors snooze? In sperm competition, “you snooze, you lose.”

Could this be why a man would more often be knocked out after sex than a woman? Among our close genetic relatives, the chimpanzees, a female chimp typically has sex with as many partners as she can manage. This means that she doesn’t feel fully satiated by her first partner (or perhaps by any partner). Remember, genes don’t care if Ms. Anna Nicole Chimp is ever satisfied, as long as her behavior results in genetically successful offspring.



//
IT ISN’T EASY BEING GREEN

No matter how froggy you or your partner may look from time to time, you are actually royalty in disguise. For example, Will amazed me. Years of slavery to his mood-altering habits had left him with a deeply embedded impression that he was, in fact, a frog. He had pretty much accepted the dimensions of his aquarium, padded it with a couple of substance dependencies, and hunkered down for the duration. Uncomfortable as it was, it was home. Despite his façade of enthusiasm for trying the Exchanges, he was skeptical about forsaking familiar territory in favor of “some pie-in-the-sky summit.”

Yet gradually, but steadily, as we stuck to our bonding-based lovemaking, he metamorphosed from a discouraged addict into a warm, insightful, recovered companion who is still my favorite teacher. The transition took time, but my belief in his power to transform himself was also a factor. These days, he masterfully soothes my ruffled feathers, or gets me laughing when I’m taking myself too seriously. We both feel very fortunate.

Before beginning, talk about what you experienced following the previous Exchange.

￼ Do you feel cherished? If so, tell your partner why. If not, what would make you feel more cherished?

￼ Are you able to enjoy your partner’s gifts of affection, or are you angling to see “what you can get away with?” Try to resist altering your own mood by seeking sensation, and see what it feels like to relax, receive, and give.

// THE MYTH OF SELF-SUFFICIENCY
Face it. The neurochemical changes at orgasm instantly free us of our need for other people—at least for a bit. Dopamine drops. Who needs love? Only when one takes into account the effects, and escalation, of the full passion cycle does the reality become evident. As German writer Ariadne von Schirach lamented,

People who spend so much of their time sitting in front of a computer with their trousers down or their skirts up have little time or interest left for relationships.… Ninety percent of men and eighty-six percent of women [masturbate] regularly. And, in the last thirty years, masturbation among women has increased by fifty percent.… Women have become a more horrific version of men, readily expressing their displeasure over lack of sexual compliance. Men have become insecure and have fled to the Internet. Both are approaching a state of narcissistic lunacy, and solidarity is something that seems attainable only among friends.345


//
There are a lot of people who would make terrific partners rather than ideal gene machines. If you’re not seeking to have a baby, broaden your mate-selection criteria—and remember that affectionate contact (oxytocin) has the power to change aesthetic perception.

// a woman without much bonding behaviour in her life will have that long list of qualities she looks in a man that makes it hard to find and even more hard for him to magically fall in love with her

Second, as you engage in these behaviors, you awaken a neurochemical ally: oxytocin. The “cuddle hormone” has a special property that distinguishes it from dopamine. As we’ve seen, dopamine induces excitement and puts you into high gear. When stimulated with too much dopamine, your nerve cells decrease their sensitivity to it. What goes up must come down. Your mood changes. Typically, you feel less alive—and very susceptible to suggestions that send up a dopamine flare.

Oxytocin is unusual in that it can have the opposite effect. Not only does it induce a calm, warm mood that can increase tender feelings and openness, but also the more oxytocin produced, the more sensitive some nerve cells become to it (because they activate additional oxytocin receptors on themselves).222 What goes up stays up, or goes a bit higher—as does your sense of satisfaction.

This may be why daily bonding behaviors can produce increasing feelings of well-being over time—rather than boredom (habituation). Oxytocin may also help us “unlearn” the items on our ideal-mate checklist—as well as our attachments to previous mates. By increasing brain plasticity, oxytocin apparently even rewires our aesthetic sense.223 If you want your partner to look adorable (to you) forever, keep snuggling!

If it feels odd to use infant-caregiver cues in an adult relationship, realize that you’re already using them. Caressing a woman’s breast is an obvious adaptation of infant-caregiver bonding behavior, and kissing seems to have evolved from the way 

// women circle of girlfriends
Women girlfriends are people pleasers, afraid that their friend won't like them they will avoid the truth and tell what their friend wants to hear. Example: a girl already has a boyfriend but she sees a more attractive man, she tries to flirt but the man asks "Do you have a boyfriend ?" "Yes, but bla bla...", "I'm sorry, I'm not interested !". Now she goes super sad back to her group all sad like she might cry, and all the girls try to cuddle her feelings "Omg what an asshole!", "You were so brave and honest, he's the bad guy!" and so on and so forth. I didn't matter she did a wrong thing.

Another story a women actually got a boyfriend or fiance he's caring and smart and good looking, but he's not rich, he's modest. Now that woman kept pestering him to earn more money, and kept comparing him with other men that have more money. Why can't you be like other men, bla bla. Obviously she did not keep to those standards, she's excluded. Also she was encouraged by her girlfriends to act that way. Only to find out the guy was rich and he was testing her. By the time she found out of course they broke up, and of course he wouldn't get back up with her. Anyway she was very pissed that all her girlfriends kept encouraging her or agreeing with her. They never told her the truth, the way she behaves pushes the man away, sure some of her "girlfriend" were not true friends, but I saw this behaviour even when they were good friends.

//
The story that is sold to women is that you will find the right guy and be happy ever after. It's not true the brain is designed for wanting not enjoying or satisfaction. That's why romance novels sell, we are designed to fall in love not stay in love. 
It's the same story, the guy chock full of qualities and skills and super handsome, tall(thats highly unlikely to exist) and above all else in love with the heroine. Once they are a couple the planets align and all existential pain disappears and the heroine is happy 24/7.

//
Women have a hard time coping with their existence after 30-35. They also have problems with keeping their money, there is always something to buy.

// A closely related myth is that willpower leads to change. Willpower is necessary, of course, to reach a place at which you will commit to change. But it is only a small piece of change. For a loose girl, she needs willpower to not go to that party where the boys are, especially when she’s feeling down on herself. But the willpower isn’t enough. She needs to engage in a circuit of efforts, including social support, acceptance of herself, and self-awareness about her fantasies. She needs to be willing to sit through some pretty painful feelings that come when she doesn’t relieve her anxiety with male attention.

The other important myth here is the magic bullet. Our society can probably be blamed for much of the origins of the magic bullet. We do not cater to patience or discomfort. Technology has practically removed the word slow from our vocabulary. Everything is immediate gratification. Unfortunately—or fortunately, depending how you look at it—personal change won’t ever be fast. If it is, then I guarantee you it isn’t real. There is nothing—no pill you can take, no shot you can get, no new-age therapy you can do—that will take away your shame or your pain or your propensity to act out with boys. I often remind my clients—and myself—that this is a lifelong process. It is more than possible that you will never be fully free of it. Embrace that.

// A lot of women want the privileges of men. They talk about this privileges but never about the downsides(like increased stress and suicide rates). Predominantly men do the dirty, hard and dangerous jobs. Left to chose their own jobs, males and females have different preferences because we evolved to be complementary. You can't talk about the concept of light without darkness, you can't have action without reaction in the real world. This talk is meaningless and you just wasted everybody's time. You want this privileges you can have them, along with all the downsides and responsibilities.

Women keep talking down with the patriarchy. But then what's next. Whoever is charge must take responsibility for the survival of the group. Sure we replace male leadership with female leadership and all our problem will go away because we will get only benefits. After all that what we keep hearing men have all the benefits and women are oppressed. In a lot of places were it was not traditional for women to be in charge and they got in charge things did not go well and the funniest thing a lot of time when they fail men are obviously at fault, again. ex: Story about that woman that made a business with only female employees, things did not go well.


//
Missing from sex-education curricula is really anything that might help a teenager know what to do with her sexual feelings. Sure, she can identify the ovaries on the diagram, but she knows nothing about her desire, or a boy’s desire, or how to protect herself physically and emotionally during sexual acts.

One listen to Loveline, the late-night call-in radio show with Dr. Drew Pinsky, reveals the intense lack of sexual self-knowledge among teens. And most of it is attached to shame. By example, three times in two weeks various girls called in to find out whether there was something wrong with them because their vaginas got very wet when they were excited. Dr. Drew had to reassure all of them that each person has different amounts of secretion when sexually aroused. Go to any of the teen sex Q&A websites and you’ll see questions about whether anal sex can get you pregnant or about whether something is wrong when a girl orgasms just thinking about a sexual fantasy.

Model self-care. Make yourself as conscious as you can of your sexual and relational behavior. Do your own therapy. Spend some time examining yourself. How much do you need, chase, and respond to male attention? How careful are you with your sex-related choices? What is your relationship with your partner? In other words, what are you teaching your daughter about intimacy? Do you have the sort of relationship you wish for your daughter? How do you treat the females in your world? What are you showing to your daughter about how she should feel about herself as a female—about what makes her worthwhile?


// 
Sexual arousal requires an emotional response. Wetness is not body language for consent, only an explicit “Yes” is. True for both men and women.

//
Avoid “the talk”—a onetime conversation—and instead continue to be available for open communication about sex with your teen. This means being open to questions, asking her questions when you feel concerned, and talking regularly about the cultural messages in media that your teen sees and absorbs each day.

Talk minimally about your own experiences. Always consider before sharing a story whether the story will truly help her. In general, err on the side of silence when it comes to your own sexual experiences. It’s a rare instance that your daughter needs to know anything about your past sex life.

//
For decades, the push has been along the same lines as what Jo’s parents told her. And the results have been consistent: nothing has changed. The large majority of those who pledge abstinence at thirteen lose their virginities by sixteen and are just as likely to engage in oral and anal sex as those who didn’t pledge, according to a study sponsored by the National Institutes of Health.1 With limited guidance and plenty of shame about contraception, they wind up with STDs and pregnancies. They get married too young, to the wrong person, because they just want to have sex already and not be judged as bad. Many become what we can now define as loose girls, young women who use sex and male attention to fill emptiness and need, who wind up disappointed and ashamed, unsure how to change their behavior, and terribly judged.

//
 When I pressed her about what she meant by “the one,” she admitted he would be the one who would love her so much that all her pain would go away and she’d always be happy. 

 This does not exists in the real world, thats why it is a fantasy. Always happy does not exist in the context of a normal human in our reality. If you are always happy there is something wrong with your brain. Anything that gives you high pleasure will eventually be regulated by your brain and you will get less and less pleasure over time.

//
Judith Levine writes, “Abstinence education is not practical. It is ideological.”4 And still, we cling to it. This is likely because conservatives see teenagers having any sexual relations as the problem. But as we’ve explored in this book, the harm is not in the sex but in the circumstances in which sex can happen, such as girls having sex solely because they want to feel cared for, or girls having sex without protection because they want to please the boy more than they want to protect themselves.

Good sex—when a girl wants to have the sex, both physically and emotionally, and when she does what she needs to protect herself physically—cannot be a bad thing, and certainly not any worse than it is for a boy. We all know that teen boys and girls are sexually desirous creatures. They want sex! And they will have it. Holding fast to the idea that sex is bad for teens has no useful purpose except to harm teenagers by shaming them—particularly girls—when they do have sex.

// When girls in school had sexual education the picture with the female anatomy did not contain the clitoris. Yes, knowledge must be kept from teenagers and when they do stupid stuff we wonder why ?


// EXAMINING THE THINGS WE TELL OURSELVES
Any girl or woman I’ve worked with who is still in the throes of loose-girl behavior, still pursuing male attention at any cost, even as it makes her feel like garbage, believes in the fantasy she has about men. With each of these women I’ve asked the same question: “What do you believe he will do for you?” Their answers are almost all the same:

“He will love me the way no one ever has before.”

“He will make me happy.”

“He will save me.”

A huge part of being a loose girl is believing in a fantasy, and that fantasy is of course not factual. We have been handed the lie about men by our media and culture. A boy will make you worth something. A boy’s loving you means you matter in the world. We’ve bought the idea entirely. But beneath the fantasy is the blatant lie. It isn’t true. Not even close. No man’s attention to a girl means anything. In fact, more often than not it just means he has an opportunity to use her for sex, which, in the typical cultural irony for a girl, makes her matter less. Perhaps more important, whatever fantasy you or your daughter or your client or student carries around is based on some lack that can’t possibly be filled by another person, and most certainly not some random boy. That emptiness is very real, but the fantasy that someone will fill it is not.

Often, when it comes into their awareness that they have these beliefs, the girls and women I work with are surprised. I encourage them to write those beliefs down on one side of a piece of paper, and then to make a list on the other side of what those men actually wind up doing for them. This is important, because even if men do provide some positives in these women’s lives, they do not do this impossible task of filling their emptiness, of taking away or saving them from their pain.

Larissa believed that every boy that gave her attention, or who she developed a crush on, would be “the one.” When I pressed her about what she meant by “the one,” she admitted he would be the one who would love her so much that all her pain would go away and she’d always be happy. Larissa grew up with parents she described as “distant,” whom she was never able to feel loved by. After she wrote down this belief, we discussed what she really did get from these boys. She determined that she got some affection and some sense that she was pretty and desirable, but little else. She said she never even felt like they were her friends. I didn’t expect this to change everything for Larissa right away, but it was a task I suggested she repeat with each encounter or crush. The more she paid attention to her fantasy about boys, the easier time she would have unraveling why it felt so terrible when it didn’t work out, and let’s face it—it was never going to work out as long as those were her expectations.

Deb provides another example. She had a boyfriend, but she cheated on him constantly. When I asked her what she wanted from him, she told me that she wanted him to make her feel whole. These sorts of answers are so common. We hear them everywhere. They are spread across our media, in every teen drama and romantic comedy. A boy will complete you. It’s yet another line delivered that rarely does any good for teen girls. Clearly, though, she didn’t feel whole. She slept with other boys because she felt desperate and uncared for, and she secretly hoped one of these other boys would give her that sense of wholeness. Deb and I stayed in touch, and though she hadn’t stopped searching for that sense of wholeness, she could see how she had reached that point and needed to make a change.

Along with the fantasy about boys are the core beliefs—called core schemas in cognitive therapy—we have about ourselves. So often, we come to believe some essential lie about ourselves: I am not lovable. I am not special. I am worthless. I don’t matter. These lies come about through various channels, such as growing up with parental abuse or neglect or addiction, or with a trauma such as rape. Or they come about because of situations with boys, or because of our personality type, or simply because of how our culture makes us feel as girls.

Paula, for instance, developed the core belief “I am not special” right after she went through puberty. She developed crushes on boys, but those boys kept choosing other girls to date. When one finally did choose her as his girlfriend, he decided he liked someone else after about a month. This is ordinary dating behavior among adolescents, but Paula felt as though it meant she were different from other girls, that she wasn’t special.

Combine those sorts of core beliefs with the fantasy of what a boy can provide, and it’s easy to see why a girl might get hung up on getting with boys. She can easily come to believe that a boy will save her from these terrible things she believes about herself. He can make them untrue. I encouraged Paula to notice when she had that thought about not being special, and then we worked together to examine the thought process that led her to that false belief. Over time, she began to recognize that there was little logic to it. Having this sort of awareness so young—fourteen years old—Paula has the potential to avoid heading down a loose-girl path.


// When a woman flakes on you and cancels the date(most likely with a text) at the last minute or 10 min after the date was supposed to be, there are things you need to know. Young women believe they are entitled to do this stuff, they have high value in the sexual market so you will rarely be treated nice after all, they have options and you are just a man among many.

Women give numbers all the time but they might do it just to end the interaction. If you want to date the girl then reply with "How are you going to make it up to me ? :)". The emoji is necessary because you want to convey your time is valuable, and she must win you over now but without looking but hurt, but playful. 
*******
If you show to much interest or willingness to do a lot of thing for her it's not attractive(she might assume you are just another guy who want to get in her pants, plus she has options other men are showering with attention anyway). Women are attracted to strong, independent masculine men.


// Women take for granted the privileges they get when they are young and pretty, they don't realize or they don't want to think their position in the sexual market is privileged and temporary, they assume this is normal and this should continue this way. When they get after 30 and start losing their beauty they will became angry and blame their situation on many things, but in reality they are angry because they lost their beauty.
When you go from better place to a worse place you get depressed because you compare the present with the past you want to go from bad to better place, you want to see improvement even if it's just a little.

// Only women and gay men notice the clothing and accessories and other things women do to make themselves more pretty. Straight men don't notice after a certain level, this behaviour is to establish rank among them, with what they have, they compare one another amongst themselves.
Also they speak differently, and they don't finish their sentences and discussion witch is normal for women but weird for straight men.

// When to talk about emotions
Share feelings only when you are in a relationship of at least a couple of months, women like man that share their feeling in a long term relationship. If it's a hookup then don't share, it's not socially appropriate.

// You don't ask a fish how to catch fish, you ask a successful fishermen, this is also true with women. Ask men that are successful at getting women.
When you ask women relationship advice, they don't talk about you, they talk about the high value males and the rules are different for them than for you. Follow the advice and you will fail.

// If you want to meet high quality women, you need two things. First improve your self respect, your relationship with yourself, become high quality. Second have high quality male friend, improve your social circle. They will have girlfriends and they will bring their girl friends with them. You met women through them and you are socially vetted by the high quality males and females, your approach will have more success than doing pick ups on the street, thats a cold approach.

// sx education
Most women don't have good sexual education, they believe the mood for sex must come by itself, but it comes by initiating sex. So they don't initiate sex and they are constantly not in the mood.
They also have less testosterone, so the mood is less likely to come.

// PEA acts as a central nervous system stimulant in humans
During the heart-pounding excitement of new love, your brain releases lots of phenylethylamine (PEA). PEA functions like a natural amphetamine, so you really are high on love. PEA triggers the release of two neurotransmitters: dopamine and norepinephrine.

// I have a Pavlov’s dog–reaction to the sound of a text coming in. I immediately think, “Could it be someone who wants me?”


//**********************************************************
I’m still here, I move around to try to get a new me, but I still remain the same. And now I’m moving again, this time with a real hope to make it work, to change things, to rip off this part of me.

When my husband and I got engaged, I threw myself into wedding planning. I needed to believe that my life was about to change—not just that I would be a wife, settled down, but that I would somehow stop feeling that old desperation that had continually gotten me into trouble with men. I figured that by taking my game piece off the table, that part of me would evaporate. Someone loved me. He loved me enough to marry me. What’s more, he was wonderful—kind, attentive, available. I no longer needed to spend my time searching for what I didn’t quite get yet was pure fantasy. I no longer needed to try to fill my emptiness. It would be filled now through my marriage.

A few months after the wedding, though, I found myself out again at a bar. There was a guy there. Beautiful—big eyes and full lips. He brushed his hair back from his face with his hand. He turned his eyes to me, and it was as though the entire world went away. There was no husband, no marriage. No friends at my table. No noise. There was me and there was this guy, a guy who would surely penetrate my pain, who would show me through his attention to me that I was worthwhile.

Later that night, having left alone, dodging that boy’s advances, I sat in the bedroom where my husband unknowingly slept and tried to calm myself. In truth, I was terrified. Would I ever be free of the grip of my addiction? Would I be able to stay committed to this man I loved, who loved me? That evening I understood in a deeper manner that I would always be that girl. Marriage would not release me from her. Being loved by a man would not shake her loose. She and I were one. I would need to consider how to live my life with her.

That night was an important turning point for me as a loose girl. It was the beginning of my movement toward true intimacy—perhaps not intimacy as our culture defines it, where a man and a woman fall in love and ride off into the sunset and all is forever right with the world—but movement toward intimacy, which is the greatest achievement for a loose girl.

Perhaps you have a daughter who you want to protect. Perhaps she has already begun heading down this path. Perhaps you are a therapist who regularly hears stories just like these from your clients. Or maybe you are the girl you see in these pages. You are the one seeking change. This chapter is indeed about change. Readers write me daily: “Tell me what to do. Tell me how to change.” To talk about change for a loose girl, we must first talk about not changing, because the bottom line is that it remains highly unlikely that you will stop feeling that urge to seek male attention when you are feeling low. As noted in the previous chapter, and like with any addiction, the first step is acceptance. Here, we examine the idea of acceptance more closely.


LOVING YOURSELF

Most of the women who spoke to me have been told at one time or another that they must love themselves before someone else will love them. Friends tell them. Therapists tell them. Their parents tell them, too. For a loose girl, though, it isn’t that simple. For most of us, loving ourselves is too complicated. We’ve screwed up too many times. We’ve pushed too many people away with our addictions. We’ve gotten pregnant, had abortions, put ourselves in situations where we were mistreated again and again. We are too miserable when we’re alone. Other people can love themselves first, but not us. When I asked a few of the women what they thought of when they heard “love yourself,” they grew silent. Mandy said she’d never really thought about what that would even entail. Carla said she guessed she was supposed to take spa days, or lavender baths, or have a candlelit dinner for one. We laughed, hearing how ridiculous that was.

Loving yourself is a lifelong process of acceptance for who you are. It is a process of acknowledging the ways you’ve screwed up, harmed yourself, done irreparable damage to relationships, and still seeing that you are a worthwhile human being. You won’t get there by taking a bath. Loving yourself is part of an endless movement toward intimacy. The women I interviewed who felt they were more in control of their loose girl than in the past all said something similar about accepting themselves as they were.

“You have to learn to be happy with who you are and the way God created you.”

“I don’t think anyone ever recovers from this, only manages.”

“I consider myself in the process of heading towards recovery.”

“I still have a difficult time being vulnerable and intimate but at least I am aware of it.”

Before we can have intimacy with anyone else, we must find a way to accept ourselves. But girls who have sex are not treated kindly in American culture. You are a slut. You don’t care about yourself. You don’t care about having real love. Otherwise, you wouldn’t stand before the mirror before you go out, trying to determine which skirt best shows off your legs. Or, if you aren’t a slut, you are the empowered girl discussed in chapter 3; you have sex because, by God, you can do whatever you want to do. You can go out in the evening and collect boys like fireflies in a jar. You don’t have to want love.

All these assumptions made about you sink into your sense of self. It is nearly impossible to keep out the voices of a culture that will not let girls define their sexual identity. And then, too, there are parents and friends and ex-boyfriends and boys at school—all of them make assumptions about who we are as sexual beings. Inevitably, we feel judged, defensive, hurt, and misunderstood.

So, before you can begin to have intimacy with yourself and others, before you can make choices for yourself that aren’t self-destructive, you must first embrace the part of you that needs. This is a hard one. Just hearing that feels wrong. Girls aren’t supposed to need. Our neediness is ugly. It pushes boys away. It’s the reason we are unlovable. These are the lies we believe—that girls should not crave anything. We shouldn’t have intense desires. Open any book called How to Make a Man Love You or some version of that title, and the number one rule is don’t be needy. Boys hate that, they all say.

Mandy, twenty-three years old, explains that her neediness feels like “an open sore.” She says, “Every time I start to like a boy it’s like I can’t control myself. I can’t act cool anymore. I call too much. I say too much. I know I make myself unattractive, and I hate it. Sometimes I wish I could just rip my neediness out of my body.” Mandy isn’t alone with this feeling. I hear this sense of repulsion regularly from girls when they talk about their neediness. I felt that way, too. The shame I had from my need in my teens and twenties was so intense, in fact, that it threw me back into yet another boy’s bed again and again. Shame about one’s need is one of the defining features of the loose girl.

However, when a girl acts needy with a boy, if she, like Mandy says, calls him again and again and he doesn’t call her back, leaves messages saying, “Why haven’t you called? Don’t you like me anymore?” then what she is really doing is trying to control him with her need. We girls do all sorts of things like this, don’t we? Some of us send too many emails and texts. Some hang on him in public, afraid he’ll look at someone else. Some break into his Facebook account to see if he’s talking with other girls. This kind of behavior among girls is almost considered normal.

A few weeks ago at a nail salon, I heard a woman breezily say to her friend, “I figured he was cheating on me again, so I broke into his email account to see if I was crazy.” (Honey, once you’ve broken into his email account, there’s nothing more to see about whether you’ve crossed over into crazy.) “Women,” the guys all say, rolling their eyes. And sure enough, girls call each other to talk about these actions, to get support for them. “Of course you had to break into his account! He was acting weird!” “Of course you called him again! He still hasn’t called you back! What does he expect you to do?”

But this isn’t normal behavior. When we engage in these sorts of behaviors, we have moved so far away from ourselves, from caring about ourselves, from being a friend to ourselves, that we are so completely out of control that we may as well be drinking until we puke or shooting our arms full of drugs. When a girl relentlessly pursues a guy to find out what he’s thinking, she is demanding that he make her feel better, that he feed a part of her that has nothing to do with him by calling her back and saying, “Of course I like you.” When she breaks into his accounts, she is suggesting that he can’t have a will of his own, that there is no way he would love her if she doesn’t control him into doing so. Who in their right mind likes that? Who finds that attractive? Nobody wants to be made responsible for another person’s feelings. You don’t have to be a boy to feel that way. Girls don’t want to have a boy’s desperation dumped on them either. The problem here is not the neediness itself. It’s making other people responsible for your needs. It’s acting on no one’s behalf, not even your own. It is acting without any compassion for him and his needs, or for you and your own.

Beneath all that chasing and pursuing and desperation, of course, there is a little girl, a girl who feels abandoned every time you don’t give her attention and try to make someone else—a boy—take care of her. There is a little girl who doesn’t believe for a moment that anyone would love her if she didn’t try to force them into it. Some of the women I spoke with had had experiences in therapy where the therapist had tried to help them find this girl and take care of her. Twenty-seven-year-old Carla described how useless that was:

The therapist had me close my eyes and try to visualize the part of me that felt needy as a small child. I did it too. She was in there, like in my stomach, or maybe my womb. She was probably about six or seven. The therapist had me like kiss her and hug her and stuff, and even though I did it, the whole time I was thinking how ridiculous it was. I mean, I could love this part of me all I want, but as a woman I was still going to want a man to love me.

Carla’s story exemplifies how many of the therapeutic approaches to help us stop needing male attention probably won’t help. There are lots of exceptions, of course. Some women will find success with twelve-step programs or with the sort of visualization that Carla described. But most of us don’t, because unlike most addictions, part of what we are after is perfectly healthy—love, attention, and sex. Not only is it perfectly healthy, but it’s also necessary to a satisfying life.

So, before anything else, girls like us have to accept that that part of us that desperately wants attention, that desperately wants to be loved, is never going away. That time is past. Way back when, my mother didn’t love me enough, caught up in her own narcissism. Mandy’s father left when she was two years old, and she can count the amount of times she’s seen him since on one hand. Carla’s parents were so busy with their own unhappiness that they didn’t care to see hers. The other girls and women I spoke to had mothers who tried to kill themselves, fathers who ignored them, fathers who bullied and were sexually inappropriate or outright molested. Others were raped or simply became caught up in the cultural pressure to be sexy and to put out so that guys would find them worthwhile.

We all have our stories. They are ours to keep, a part of what makes us who we are. We will never be rid of them. Never. When you can swallow that fact, when you can acknowledge that you will always feel that ache, that it will resurface every once in a while, and that it is only yours and that no one else has the capacity to make it feel better, then you are ready to move toward real change.


SHARING OUR STORIES
Leigh knows she will always be a loose girl, and in some ways, that was the truth that helped her feel like she could move forward with her life. She spent her teens and most of her twenties trying desperately to get male attention, trying to turn every glance from a man into a relationship. By the time she met Chris, the man she’d wind up marrying, she knew she had to find a way to stop relying so much on men to make her feel worthwhile. She came to me at that point, wanting to hear how she could not screw up her relationship with Chris. When I told her the first step was to acknowledge that she would always feel the way she feels, that she would always have the propensity to seek out other men, she grew angry. She said, “How does that help me?” But over time, she saw that it was true. To change her behavior, she had to stop beating herself up for her feelings. She had to recognize that she had those feelings again and again to know that she need not act on them. Just because she felt the desire didn’t mean she had to act on it.

The other process that helped Leigh was finding a group of women who struggled like she did. Many psychologists understand that stories can heal. Sharing stories—telling your own and listening to those of others—is a therapeutic process. Much has been written about using narrative in psychotherapy—psychodynamic and cognitive-behavioral therapies—as a way to help clients integrate their histories, their multiple selves, and as a way to make better choices. When we tell our stories, we are forced both to claim ourselves (“I did this”) and to claim our responsibilities to other people, such as our families and communities. When we tell our stories, and when our audience demands vulnerability from us, we can no longer get away with behavior like breaking into Facebook accounts. Suddenly, it is just us and our feelings and the question of what we will do with them.

I would argue that the group experience of knowing that you’re not alone—particularly for issues such as promiscuity, where girls carry so much shame—is useful as well. So many of us have these stories, and yet so few feel safe sharing them. After Loose Girl came out, I set up a system on my website where girls could simply submit their loose girl stories and read others’ in the hope that knowing so many of us are out there would be healing.



//***************************** dirty little secrets
In chapter 1, we examined the idea that girls tend to associate sexual desire with being desired. A curious twist to the disallowance of desire is that in our culture, girls are permitted to want sex if love accompanies it. They cannot want sex without it, lest they be sluts. I’ve heard often from girls that their initial masturbatory experiences involved stories about boys wanting them—her hand on her crotch was a boy’s hand, a boy who tenderly loved her as he also enlivened her sexual arousal—whereas boys’ stories of first masturbations usually include images, something they saw, or something they might do to someone else.

Because of this need for real love to be involved, sex among teenage girls often “just happens.” They get drunk and black out. They dissociate from their bodies. Alcohol is an easy out, a way not to take responsibility for one’s actions, sexual or not, boy or girl. People say, “I was drinking—I didn’t know what was happening,” or “I have no control over myself when I’m drunk, so if I did it, it was the alcohol, not me, making the choice.” Alcohol has long been a regular gateway drug to sex. Often, boys take advantage of drunk girls, thinking that the drunkenness gives them license.

But many girls, like Nikki, admit that they get drunk to loosen up sexually. They get drunk because a drunk girl doesn’t know what she was doing and therefore can’t be a slut. In my interviews, many let me know that they used alcohol often as a sort of lubrication, as a way to open themselves more easily for boys’ passes. One noted, “If I could blame it on the a-a-a-a-a-alcohol [referring to a Jamie Foxx song] I could get away with anything I secretly really wanted with a guy.”

Jessica told me that when she was as young as twelve, she started drinking because she was unhappy with herself. It was a way to be someone else, she said. Someone who could hang out with friends and not constantly compare herself to them, who could be around boys she liked and not feel fat or ugly or unappealing. Pretty quickly, too, she learned she could be flirtatious and open with boys in a way that got her attention, which turned quickly to sex. She liked the attention and the sex. She liked finally feeling like she could attract boys, like she was comfortable in her skin. That wasn’t the problem.

The problem was the way she was treated the next week in school. Everyone knew. She was called a “whore” and a “slut.” Friends started excluding her. At first, she became depressed. She drank more. She had more sex, just trying to feel better. One morning, a friend who hadn’t deserted her said, “Jess, you’ve got to stop drinking. It makes you do stuff with boys, and that’s why everyone’s being so mean to you.” Her statement was like a lightbulb for Jessica: “It was the alcohol. She could say it was the alcohol.”

And sure enough, the next time someone made a mean comment about her being a slut, she laughed and said, “I’ve got to stop drinking! I have no idea what I’m doing when I do. Cuervo is making me a slut.” The girl, who had once been her friend, laughed too, and over time they were friends again. Jessica learned the powerful lesson that it is OK to be sexually active with boys if you’re too drunk to have chosen to do so.

Maybe girls want to have sex. Maybe they want to lose their virginities. Maybe they even just want to be sexual beings. But without a culturally acceptable avenue to act in such a way, they often feel they have to be blank—not there—in the process.

Drunk, they can avoid the emotions that come along with the cultural weight of having sex for the first time, and they only have to feel bad about it the next day, when it is too late and the deed is done. Girls rarely feel in charge of their own desire when it comes to sex, and certainly this starts with their first time. It’s easy to see why girls might revert to choices they later regret, and it’s easy to see why they often don’t know what it would even mean to feel “ready.”

Some may wonder, then, whether I think there is an age or developmental passage at which point I think a girl is officially “ready.” But the answer to whether a girl is ready to have sex is entirely individual. Judith Levine, in Harmful to Minors, shares one of my favorite stories: a thirteen-year-old girl asks her mother how she would know when she was ready. Her mother replied, “When you want it so much that you feel you can’t not have it.” She went on to note that sex changes the way you feel about the other person, and that once you do it with that person, you can’t undo it or unfeel what you felt.5 This mother honored her daughter as a sexual being. She told her to listen to her own desire but also to recognize that there are emotional consequences to sex. If only all teenage girls could receive the same advice about losing their virginities, my guess is that a lot more girls would feel in control of their sexual lives.

*************************************************
Hope Witsell, a thirteen-year-old in Florida, killed herself after a topless photo of her was sent around her high school and the high school in a neighboring town. She sent the photo after pressure to do so from a boy she had a crush on.5 Really, though, the harm didn’t originate with the sexting, which is how Witsell’s and Logan’s cases were presented. It came from the girls’ peers, who bullied them. The photos were just tools of a much greater harm, which is rarely addressed as seriously: slut shaming.


// land of the losers

Musing About Life, the Universe and Everything
 
 
This one is really rambling, so be ready to flip between every topic and back again. I’m sure I’ll look like a raving lunatic by the end of it.
I was driving Shirley Moocher home. Her car was in the shop, so she needed to be picked up from work. I’d done this favor for her repeatedly while her car was being fixed, and each time, she’d gush at what a Nice Guy I was. (Ugh, stop saying that!) Shirley had been to the hairdresser that day and was asking me over and over if she looked good. How is it that a woman can manage to talk for fifteen minutes straight about her hair?
“Shirley, you look beautiful. Seriously, you have nothing to worry about.”
She smiled. “Thank you.”
“You know...” I chuckled. “Now I kind of wish that I was attractive...”
“Well, you are attractive.”
“What?”
“You’re an attractive guy. Way better than average,” she said.
I stopped the car at a red light and waited.
“Thank you,” I said in my most sincere voice. “You are the first woman who’s said that to me in a very long time. I hardly ever get told that.”
“Well, women never tell guys that they’re good-looking.”
“They don’t?” (In hindsight, this was a dumb question for me to ask.)
“No.”
I looked her right in the eye.

“When I was growing up, only my mom and grandmother ever told me that I was good-looking. Do you have any idea what it’s like to grow up hardly ever being told that you’re attractive?”
“No, I don’t,” she said.
“It made me think that I wasn’t good-looking. I swear, if an adult woman doesn’t have at least three men tell her she’s beautiful on a daily basis, she’ll lose her freakin’ mind... and women don’t make the slightest effort to return even one tenth the favor.”
“Well, women don’t tell guys they’re attractive because the guy might get a swollen head,” she explained.
“Oh, I see. And he might get vain and demanding?” I asked.
She nodded. “Yes.”
“Vain and demanding LIKE A WOMAN?!” I almost yelled.
She kept her mouth shut after that and I drove her home in frustrated silence. Women are black holes when it comes to compliments. They keep sucking them in and don’t give any back.

---------------
// in general females care about themselves and their kids(not all care about their kids), not men. You have to distinguish yourself only to realize the women is attracted to you because of your wealth, position in the social hierarchy and so on.

Don't be fooled by the idea of romanticism, women want to be with you because they can get something.

// women and men working together
Their is drama, people are sleeping with one another, they make sexual jokes, they get attracted to each other, some do not reciprocate that feeling and feel harassed and so on. 

The thing is women are attracted to men in superior positions, so nowadays this is called men abusing their power and forcing women. Because women want to control what you can and cannot say and gain power over men.

// story about all female employee that destroyed the business

Job was second first they talked about what they bought or want to buy(shoes, clothes, etc.), they talked about relationships and diet.

There were cliques and when they fought a group went to the bathroom the other stayed. The group encouraged the loser and the winner in the fight, the arguments never stoped. 

They were on a roller coaster of emotion because of their periods, somebody was always cranky. They fought over all kinds of stupid things like fashion, they had to be the best dressed etc., once two girls received the same gift on winter holidays, a brand bag and they became instant enemies.

The fight were never settled, one woman responsible for talking to the clients to receive payments simply didn't want to speak to them so she didn't and the boss only found later when it was to late. Sneaky backstabbing behaviour that you only learn much later how screwed you are.

Men were temporarily hired when it was necessary for camera work(because heavy equipment only men are available). The women were hitting on the camera crew and director, the director even had a live in girlfriend one of the employees became his new girlfriend. Also there was temporarily peace in front of the males, they looked well behaved.


// don't expect empathy from women
It's not their default state, until they have a son and he struggles because of injustice against males.

// Female and male sexuality are different. Males want sex and then they bond, females want to be secure, want the partner to make them feel protected and comfortable they want to be complimented, bonding first sex later. Not understanding male sexuality shaming and blaming them is not going to do well in a relationship.

// Females that give relationship advice in general are corrupted by the need to show how virtuous they are. They lie to make themselves look better, it's hard for them to be truthful about what they like and don't like. Because they have an innate fear of not destroying their reputation.

// Women want stoic confident men that understand women and they do stuff they like or want without being told.

// The psychology of seduction

What's the one decision that you are going to make in your life
that's going to determine your future mental health, happiness and well-being
more than any other decision you're going to make?
Well, that decision is who you choose to marry.
Or put another way, who you choose
to enter into a long-term, committed, monogamous relationship.
If you get that decision wrong, and you end up with the wrong person,
then that's going to cause you more unhappiness and distress
than any other decision in your life.
In fact, it's going to be so bad
that you might as well get a season ticket to my psychiatric clinic.
(Laughter)

Now, the survey data suggests
that around the world 99% of the population
desire a single committed, monogamous, long-term relationship.
It's something that everyone wants,
so how to get that decision right is extremely important.
There are many different aspects of that decision we could discuss,
we could talk, for example,
about how to know when you've met the right person.
But because it's a big and complicated subject,
I'm going to focus just on one aspect in the short time
I've got to talk to you today.
And that aspect is going to be: how to seduce.
Or to put it in more common British parlance: how to pull.
(Laughter)

I became interested in the subject as a psychiatrist,
when I had a moment of epiphany in a clinic.
I was working in the outpatient department at my psychiatric hospital,
I was consulting with a young lady who was pretty depressed,
and all of a sudden, she announced in the middle of the consultation:
'Dr Persaud, I don't need Prozac, I need a boyfriend.'
It was at that moment that I realized that more success in relationships
would go a long way to improving people's happiness.
That if we could help people improve their relationships
and how they conduct relationships,
it would go a long way to improving their mental health.

Hence, I got interested in the science of seduction.
Now it's very important you understand
that my interest in the science of seduction
is purely academic, clinical, scientific.
I have no personal interest in this subject.
Indeed, before I came this evening to give you this talk,
my wife said it's very important that you make sure
that they don't think you're some kind of academic geek
who started reading about the science of seduction
because you found the whole relationship thing kind of puzzling.
When the publishers rang me up for the first time
to ask me to write my first book on seduction,
I rang my wife, I was very excited.
I said, 'Darling, the publishers have just rung me up,
and they have commissioned me
to write the very next book they want to publish on how to seduce.'
There was a distinct silence down the line, and then my wife said,
'Yes, but why you?'

(Laughter)
Which I thought was somewhat harsh.
The other reason why I think seduction is very important
is that it actually goes to the heart of a huge amount of human happiness.
You see, people come to me at my clinic,
and they tell me all about the things they want from life and the world
that they are not getting.
And they are very frustrated.

They may want a date, they may want a Ferrari in their garage,
or they may want a million pounds in their bank account.
They always tell me what they want and what they're not getting.
What they don't tell me

is what they need to give in order to get what they want.
You see, at the heart of life is a transaction.
You can get what you want from the world and life,
but you have to be able to give something
that the world wants and you need to give it first.
I'm going to let you into a little secret
that all of the most highly effective people on the planet
already intuitively know, and that is,
life is a seduction.

We need to seduce the world and the people in it
and seduce life into giving us the things that we want.
And in order to seduce successfully,
we need to make the world the right offer.
You see, in a general sense,

we need to be constantly seducing our friends, our lovers as well,
but our work colleagues, in a strictly perhaps not erotic sense of the word,
but we need to be seducing them into giving us the things that we want.
Now, I know already many of you are going to be a bit disappointed,
you were sitting there hoping I was going to give you some hot tips
on how to seduce
in terms of more narrow erotic sense of the word 'seduction'.
Well, the good news is,
yes, some of the tips I'm about to give you will be helpful
if you came here focused
on the more narrow erotic sense of the word seduction.
The bad news is, if you have been sitting here
really locked in and focused in on getting some hot tips
on how to seduce in the more narrow erotic sense of the word,
well, that says so much about you.
(Laughter)

So the other thing I want to say before I finally reveal these tips
is what I like about them is how democratic they are.
What they kind of say is that anyone can become more seductive.
It doesn't really matter how hot you look or how cool you are.
I find that most people seem to have rather low self-esteem
when it comes to seduction.
They kind of think, I can't be really seductive.
What's really amazing about the social psychology of seduction is
what it says is, anyone can become more seductive,
and indeed, some of these tips are so powerful
you can leap ahead of even the hottest person that you know
or the coolest member of your social group
and become more seductive than them.

So, the first tip comes from a really interesting social psychology experiment.
In the social psychology experiment, the social psychologist,
an academic working in the university department,
recruits some students to be confederates of the experimenter.
He sends the students out on a date,
they invite people to come on a date with a student.

The person invited to come on the date thinks it's just a date,
but actually, there's a social psychology experiment going on.
The social psychologist instructs the student,
who is the confederate of the experimenter,
to, throughout the date,
agree with everything the other person is saying.
Then at the end of date,
it's revealed that there was a social psychology experiment going on,
and a rating is secured
for how attractive the student confederate was found,
given how they behaved during the date.

In the first condition of the experiment, the student confederate goes out
and just agrees with everything the other person says on the date,
and an attraction rating is secured in the end,
and people are found moderately attractive in that condition.
In the second condition of the experiment,
the student confederate is sent out on the date
and is instructed to disagree with everything the other person says.
So it goes a bit like this: 'I really like this restaurant.
So lovely, what do you think?' 'No, I don't like it.'
(Laughter)

'This fish was rather nice, don't you think?'
'No, I don't like it.'
It comes as no surprise if you spend the whole date doing that,
disagreeing with everything the other person says,
you're not really found very attractive at all.
So far, so obvious.
Now, the third condition of the experiment is where things get really interesting.
In the third experiment, the student confederate is sent out
with the instruction to spend the first half of the date
disagreeing with everything the other person says,
and then to switch and start agreeing for the second half of the date.
And amazingly enough,
you're found most attractive of all in this condition.
Now why is that?
There's rather some complex psychological theories going on
as to what's going on, so I'm going to cut to the chase
and give you what I think is the most profound and important theory.
You see the other person on the date
didn't realize there was a Machiavellian manipulative plot of thought,
whereby you were watching for the clock to hit a certain time,
and then you're going to switch.
What their experience of you was
that you were rather difficult in the first half of the date,
and then you warmed up to them.

And they think they had an impact on you.
They think they warmed you up.
And there is something about having an impact
which is very seductive.
There are many objections to this experiment.
People always say,
'I can see that's seductive, but you're playing a game.
Why can't we just be ourselves?'
Well, you can just be yourself if you want,
but be aware of something,
which is that there are many people out there
that are playing the game of life,
and they are playing it rather hard.
And as a result, they are terrifically successful.
They are really good in job interviews,
and they're very good as politicians at getting elected.
So if you are not going to play the game of life, that's fine,
but be aware that you might run into trouble
if everyone else is playing the game of life.

The other important idea here is
that we can divide relationships into three key phases:
attention, interest, and maintenance.
You walk into a bar, you see a very attractive person, 'Wow!'
They've got your attention.
Hopefully, you've got their attention.
Then you go over and talk to them, get to know them,
and you're entering the interest phase.
Then, maybe after a few days or weeks,
you might transition into the maintenance phase,
which is a long-term commitment.
Now, the key point about this idea
is that different skills are required depending on which phase you're in.
It's a profoundly important social psychological model
in terms of getting a handle on and understanding
business relationships, friendships, and of course, romantic seductions.
Even if you want to reject the attention, interest, and maintenance phase,
it is a very powerful model.

We all know people who we think:
'This is a wonderful person, how come they are single?'
Well, maybe they are very good at maintenance,
and they are not so good at attention or interest.
So the model is really helpful in diagnosing problems
in terms of seduction.
Another point I want to make is, even if you end up
in a long-term committed relationship doing maintenance,
if your relationship is going to be successful and last 40 or 50 years,
I believe you've got to cycle back through attention, interest, and maintenance.
You're going to be constantly cycling through
in a long-term relationship,
getting your partner's attention again,
getting them interested again in you.
And that constant cycling means that life and even long-term committed relationships
are a long-term seduction.

Life is a seduction,
even long-term marriages are a constant seduction.
And the attention, interest, and maintenance model
is really helpful in understanding that.
Perhaps the most expert exponent of attention, interest, and maintenance
was Casanova.
Not least because Casanova was brilliant at attention and interest,
but really bad at maintenance.
Casanova was a real figure, he lived in the 18th century Venice,
he was an adventurer and a nobleman, and is said to be, perhaps,
the most successful seducer of women in history.
And he's got the final tip I want to give you
at the heart of the secret of seduction.

You see, many people think
that Casanova would walk into a bar in the 18th century Venice,
see an attractive member of the opposite sex, and pull like that.
But actually, that's not true.
He would walk into a bar and see an attractive woman,
but then spend many months courting her,
as was the courtly custom of the day, before being finally successful.
And there is, by the way, an important lesson for us all.
If you go into a bar tonight, and pull like that,
I'm afraid to tell you that's not really a seduction.
A seduction is when you meet someone
who is disinterested in you, or only moderately interested,
and you convert that interest into rabid desire.
That's a seduction.

And the problem with the modern world, and websites, Tinder and Apps
is that it's kind of doing away with the whole seduction idea,
and we are losing the skill of seduction with very ominous social implications,
in my opinion.
The story is that Casanova walks into a bar one night,
sees a gorgeous woman, she's an actress, physically very desirable,
falls immediately in love with her, desires her.
The actress, besides being physically stunning,
has an interesting characteristic.
You see, she has a speech impediment, a lisp.
She can't say words properly that have the letter R in them.
Many of you will know a famous TV presenter here in Britain
called Jonathan Ross, whose nickname is Wossy,
who has a very similar speech impediment.
He can't say words properly that have the letter R.
She has this speech impediment.

Without really interacting with the actress,
Casanova turns on his heels,
goes home and does a mysterious thing.
He spends the next three days and nights writing a play.
And this play has a very special feature.
It has no words in it with the letter R.
Three days and nights later, he returns to the bar,
presents the play to the actress,
and the seduction is successful.
But here is my pop quiz psychology question for you,
you see, what Casanova could've done,
he could have said
'I can't help noticing you've got a bit of a speech impediment there.
Tell you what,
I'll pay for elocution lessons, I'll buy you speech therapy.'
No one can deny that speech therapy
is more pragmatically helpful to the poor actress
than a play that has no words in it with the letter R.
However, it's the play that's the seductive move.
It's the play that's sexy. Why is that?
Well, let's look at between the lines.

What you are really saying when you offer someone speech therapy is,
what you are saying is,
'There is something wrong with you, it needs fixing.
After it's fixed, then I'll have a relationship with you.'
That's not a very sexy message.
But, guess what?
It's kind of what we're saying to a lot of people, a lot of the time.
What does the play with no words with the letter R say?
What it says is, 'Don't change a thing! You're perfect as you are.
And my job is to help the world recognise the perfection that I see.'
That's a sexy message!
The other thing the play does is this.
It's terrifically specific,
the actress knows that Casanova is interested specifically in her.
A lot of young men going on a date, nip into the petrol station
because they've left at the last minute,
buy some petrol station flowers,
present the petrol station flowers to their date with a grand gesture,
and are somewhat perplexed that the date is less than overwhelmed
with the presentation of petrol station flowers.
You see, you can't go to a petrol station and buy a play off the self
that has no words in it with the letter R.
The actress knows that Casanova was interested in her and no one else.
It's specific.

But here is the final point and the most profound message
in terms of the psychology of seduction.
What Casanova has done brilliantly
is, and here is the key catchphrase you need to remember:
he's filled the unmet need.
The actress has an unmet need for parts that have no words with the letter R,
and Casanova diagnoses the unmet need,
and meets it more completely than it's ever been met before.
If you find someone's unmet need
and fill it in a way it's never been filled before,
you will be successful in seducing them.
So your mission is a two-pronged attack.
You've got to find out the unmet need,
and then you have to fill it in a way that's never been filled before.
I can sense immediately that you have a lot of questions.
'How do we find out the unmet need? How do we fill it?'
And I apologize I've I run out of time,
so I won't be able to answer those questions.
But ... is it possible that leaving you wanting more
is a kind of seduction?


// female sexual fantasies
They fantasize about giving control to the man, the fantasies include: rape, choking, spanking, dirty talk, shaming. Stuff that gives control to the man. One of the things women faced was shaming for sexual pleasure, from men and women. So in a fantasy if she is forced and feels pleasure it's not her fault. Also women are not that fragile.




// cupid's poisoned Arrow



Who's in charge

There's an optimistic belief that doing what your body is inclined to do will
lead to well-being and contentment. Actually, given our unquenchable
appetites, most of us would be healthier on a Paleolithic diet of whole foods
(no refined starches and sugars). But a diet for our sex lives? Surely if our
early ancestors pursued sexual satiety whenever opportunity knocked, we'll
be just fine doing the same thing.
This logic assumes that you're programmed for your own benefit. In
fact, evolution has wired you not for your individual welfare, but for your
genes' success. What serves your genes? Two things. The first is lots of fertilization
attempts. You experience this as the drive to exhaust yourself sexually
when you can. The second is different parents for your offspring. You
experience this as disenchantment with sexual exclusivity.
What serves you best? A solid emotional bond with a mate, harmony,
lots of affectionate, generous touch, and a reliable way to ease sexual frustration.
A handful of lucky couples find their way to this balance naturally,
but most of us are no better "swans" than we are dieters.
So, how do our genes push us to exhaust our sexual desire for each other
instead of promoting harmony? New advances in brain science (especially
neuroendocrinology) are revealing that disillusionment between lovers
may have less to do with communication or compatibility than we thought,
and more to do with a primitive pathway that runs through our mammalian
brains (limbic brains), known as our reward circuitry. This group
of structures guarantees that we receive a powerful neurochemical "reward"
when we pursue a new partner and engage in hot sex, or even think about
either one.
The neurochemical payoff at the moment of orgasm feels like it promotes
bonding. Yet such bonds are more fragile than we like to admit. At
climax, a neurochemical blast triggers further events for approximately two
weeks. These fluctuations deep in the brain drive us toward sexual satiety
and subtle changes in mood, which often create emotional friction
between lovers (Cupid's poison). Uneasiness also leaves us vulnerable to
promises of quick relief—another potential mate (real or virtual) being
one of the most alluring. Thus orgasm turns out to be related to making
more babies and making them with more than one partner.

In essence, our scheming genes have subverted human will to their purposes.

Once you understand the means they use, their unsuspected effects
upon you and your unions, and a practical alternative for easing sexual tension
and finding contentment, you will be in a better position to choose
whether you wish to remain under their spell.
We humans are unique among mammals in that we have the capacity
to comprehend our subconscious mating programming and choose to
manage it consciously. This is a blessing, because we are better off in harmonious
relationships with high levels of trust than we are in mindless
mating dances orchestrated to propel sperm to egg, bond us long enough
for two caregivers to attach to any offspring, and then urge us onward to
new partners.

Most of us sense that the gains from caring deeply about another person
we trust are profound. In fact, as pair-bonding mammals, we've evolved
to find such connections highly beneficial. Not only do trusted companionship
and loving touch change our outlook on life for the better, they
also improve physical health and reduce stress.
Sexual intimacy that can do all this is truly great sex. And to experience
it continuously all we have to do is stay in love. Indeed, if logic ruled, we
would stay in love. The problem arises when our genes rule and the aftereffects
from their incentive plan (unbridled passion) separate lovers by
causing them to exhaust their desire for each other. As my husband, Will,
put it, "Evolution doesn't give a rat's rump about happiness, fidelity, or lifelong
companionship." This is why we inherit an uneasy tension between
our add-a-mate program and our pair-bonding program.



Those people are happy who relish love's pleasure
Enjoying Aphrodite's sensual embrace
As a ship riding easy on a calm sea,
Avoiding the obsession that leads to disgrace.
For sex, like a horsefly, can madden with its sting,
And Eros [Cupid] has two arrows to his string....
A mere scratch from the first brings lifelong joy,
But the second wounds to death, and breeds despair.
Goddess born in Cyprus [Aphrodite], keep my bedroom safe
From the mortal arrow, make love in my life
A steady, continuing delight,
Not obsessional or destructive. Let me serve
The great queen with ecstasy, as is her right,
But commit no crimes for her, nor become her slave.



Having sex to the point of satiety (that "I'm done!" feeling)
is a mammalian mating signal to lose interest in one mate,
and find novel mates appealing.

Even though humans are pair-bonders, the habit of pursuing
passion to the point of quenching desire can set off unsuspected
mood swings, cause resentment toward a lover, and
erode attraction (Cupid's poison).

There are two fundamentally different ways of making love:
one for fertilization, and one for triggering closer bonding
(karezza).


Hit by Cupid's arrow! What an exhilarating, enviable state of affairs.
Like everyone else, you want to believe that the key to lasting
romantic bliss is a partner with whom you feel a passion so intense
that it can never fade. Yet, have you ever fallen in love with total abandon,
experienced wonderful lovemaking, been sure you wanted to stay together
forever—and then noticed recurring emotional friction arising between
you and your beloved? If you're married, do you have a sense that the honeymoon
is over? Perhaps one of you sometimes becomes clingy and
demanding while the other feels devoured and needs "space." Maybe you
experience subtle, periodic irritation, or a sense of stagnation that is gradually
extinguishing your former delight in each other. Perhaps you engage
in spectacular fights interspersed with passionate reconciliation.

This subconscious alienation—which mates so often encounter despite
their desire to remain in love—is the result of an unsuspected poison on
Cupid's arrow. When we fall in love, a primitive part of our brain pierces
us with a desire for great passion (Cupid's dart). An orgasm feels great, and
if it were the end of the story, lovers would be able to do what comes naturally
in the bedroom and live happily ever after. The problem is that sex—
especially the kind with lots of orgasms all around, leading to that feeling
of "I'm definitely done!" (sexual satiety)—isn't an isolated event. Orgasm
is the peak of a much longer cycle of subsequent changes deep in the brain.
These lingering effects, and the unwelcome feelings they evoke, can poison
our relationship without our conscious awareness. Remarkably, such diverse
symptoms as selfishness, unfulfilled needs, communication problems, infidelity,
and sexless marriages can all originate in these hidden commands.

In some of us this "poison" takes effect so rapidly that we part after a
single tryst. More often there is a period of relative relationship happiness,
supported by a short-lived love potion. This honeymoon harmony (or lust)
encourages us to bond for a while. On average it's long enough for mates
to produce and attach to a child, even if they do not, in fact, procreate.

Creeping disillusionment, born of Cupid's poison, then motivates us
to merge our genes with exciting new partners as well (even though we
may choose to grit our teeth and resist temptation). Why? Our genes are
programmed for their own immortality, and they don't politely wait for
opportunity to knock. These little wisps of DNA urge us toward lots of
pregnancies and a variety of partners. The more dissimilar our offspring,
the better the odds that some of them will survive changed conditions or
epidemics in order to procreate. Our willingness to shop for unfamiliar
genes would once have helped protect small populations from the dangers
of inbreeding.


Most of us tend to wear intellectual
blinders, often failing to recognize
something until we first have an
explanation for it . . . or at least, an
expectation of it. Believing is seeing.
—Barash and Lipton,
The Myth of Monogamy


Usually when Cupid's poison curdles a
romance, we conclude that we either chose
the wrong mate or that men and women are
just hopelessly different. Yet it's not our differences
that cause this distress. It is what
we have in common: involuntary, biological
responses that are as unconscious as
blinking. We are programmed for this painful
unraveling just as surely as we are programmed to fall deliriously in love
in the first place.


Women sometimes report that their taste in men changes around ovulation,
as does the way they see men. They say they're more drawn to Don
Juans, and less likely to relate to a man as a person. In short, they're more
likely to see him as a tempting hunka burnin' genes.


The biological self is petty and quite cruel, and strangely enough very
easily finds imperfections while at the same time caving in to really
low standards. Some of the petty crap in my head about my boyfriend
says: he's so WHITE, I need a dark, exotic, and mysterious man! His
hair is thin; I don't want my children to have thin hair. The voice
inside assesses and rejects one's current mate based on self-serving,
shallow ideas that have to do with physical characteristics or status.



Strictly speaking, humans may not experience the immediacy of the
Coolidge effect (unless they're at an orgy). For us, habituation more often
takes the form of decreased sexual responsiveness with long-term mates. We
may be more like monkeys. When male monkeys were paired repeatedly
with the same females (who were always in the mood, thanks to daily
hormone injections), the males copulated less and less frequendy, and with
declining enthusiasm, over a three-and-a-half-year period. Yet these slackers
hurriedly changed their ways when novel females showed up.


Could our mammalian brains be meddling with our capacity for sustaining
intimate relationships? (The mammalian brain lies beneath the
rational brain. It governs sex and love and is surprisingly similar in all
mammals.) Most mammals do not form pair-bonds as stable as ours. Yet
even among our few monogamous mammalian cousins, no species is sexually
exclusive. They burrow together and co-parent, but they are frequentiy
impelled to gather genes from strangers on the side. Those enterprising
genes like to keep gene pools nice and fresh. Habituation to one's partner
apparently serves evolution's goals by making novel partners look
tempting. Think of it this way: If sexual fidelity guaranteed more and fitter
offspring, no mammals would fool around.


Mammals generally have rigid periods of being in heat, dictated by hormones,
while humans can have sex whenever the urge arises. However, our
hormones, too, regulate us. Unfortunately our version seems to be like starting
and stopping in heavy traffic. Between passion bouts, we're likely to
find a mate increasingly exhausting, jealous, or impossible to please. And
our mate is likely to find us self-absorbed, unhelpful, or unaffectionate—
except when pursuing sex.


Research confirms that as the duration of partnership increases, sexual
desire declines in women—while desire for tenderness declines in men.9
This miserable program can keep us partner-hopping, adding mating
opportunities on the side—or just plain frustrated, baffled, and bad
tempered.

And we never suspect that the drive to exhaust sexual desire is
playing a role in this familiar pattern. Instead, we believe that sexual satiety
is a good bonding strategy for mates. As we'll see, there is reason to suspect
that it actually speeds the process of habituation, subtly shifting lovers'
perceptions of each other for the worse.


Remarkably, past sages of various traditions observed that sexual satiety
indeed drives partners apart, causing feelings of depletion and disharmony.
They also discovered a way around the problem. They recognized
that there are two fundamentally different approaches to lovemaking,
depending upon its purpose.


Fertilization-driven sex is for procreation. Climax launches sperm to
meet egg. In contrast, bonding-based sex has harmony and well-being as
its primary objectives. Both methods entail intercourse to ease sexual tension
effectively. Fertilization-driven sex achieves this goal with a neurochemical
crash followed by a surprisingly slow return to homeostasis (that
is, pre-orgasm balance). Bonding-based sex eases sexual tension via gende
intercourse mingled with deep relaxation and lots of soothing affection,
leading to refreshing feelings of satisfaction and lingering equilibrium


Making love is like inflating a balloon. Having an orgasm is like popping
the balloon, but if you finish without an orgasm you are like a
balloon that takes several days to gradually deflate, leaving you much
longer to enjoy the inflated feeling.



HOW DID THAT WORK OUT?
Theory is great, but after years of fitful explorations I was lucky enough to
meet a partner willing to experiment open-mindedly with this unfamiliar
approach to intercourse. When we got together eight years ago, my husband,
Will, and I began our relationship with bonding-centered lovemaking.
We emphasized generous affection, and did not pursue orgasm
(although orgasm still occurred on rare occasions). This type of lovemaking
is an ancient practice that is hinted at in various traditions. I now think
of it as karezza (from the Italian for "caress," pronounced ka-RET-za), a
term coined almost a century ago by a Quaker doctor.


The technique is not based on control. [During intercourse] you are
not seeking to avoid orgasm or to manipulate your bodily energies;
you are merely closing your eyes, feeling those energies stream into
your heart, head and genitals and those of your lover, and allowing
them to circulate You are always relaxing, relaxing, falling back
into the heart. Effortless awareness is the key. All your energies will
be drawn upward, diffused throughout the body.... As this takes
place, lustful tendencies will be transmuted into feelings of love and
the need for conventional orgasm will lessen.10



When we looked back a year after beginning this practice, we had to
admit that we were amazed. Life wasn't perfect, but there were definite,
positive changes. No more yeast infections or urinary tract infections for
me, no more alcohol abuse or chronic depression (or prescription antidepressants)
for Will. Lovemaking was less intense, but left us more contented.
Even now, we never seem to tire of each other's touch, and actually enjoy
helping each other. Best of all, there is a very welcome, lighthearted playfulness
in our relationship, which allows us to laugh about, and resolve,
most sources of friction effortlessly.


As a human sciences teacher who cheerfully pores over medical abstracts
for hours at a time, Will was curious to see if science could shed any light
on these improvements. He delved into research about oxytocin, the socalled
"cuddle hormone." This material went far toward explaining why
selfless, non-goal-oriented lovemaking might have enhanced our health
and countered depression" and addiction.12 For example, HIV-positive
patients survive longer when in relationship.13 Wounds heal twice as fast
with companionship, as compared with isolation.14 In primates, the caregiving
parent, male or female, lives longer.15 Oxytocin is probably the chief
hormonal player behind all of these gains.


My husband also realized that, by taking it easy and avoiding climax
during our karezza lovemaking, we were apparently benefiting from less
dramatic fluctuations in our brain chemistry. This is because orgasm
is experienced in the brain. It's a complex sequence of neurochemicalhormonal
events even more than a genital event. For example, you can stick
an electrode in someone's brain, or spinal cord, and produce the sensation
of orgasm without touching any genitals.

What goes up at the moment of orgasm must
come down. Although scientists aren't generally acknowledging that there
is a post-orgasmic letdown, evidence of it has already turned up in the
research of those seeking to develop sexual
enhancement drugs. This subconscious cascade
of neurochemical events, which appears to take
a full two weeks to return to homeostasis, is
behind the ability of Cupid's poison to sour our
relationships.


	
During this recovery phase lovers may feel
needy, irritable, anxious, depleted, or desperate
for another orgasm (to ease related symptoms).

They don't realize that they are temporarily off balance. This is a recurring
trigger for disharmony and compulsive behavior, and it's built right into
our romantic relationships. Yet this recovery phase is nearly invisible to
sexually active adults, because at first we typically try to resolve any uneasiness
with another orgasm. This instinctive response pushes us toward further
sexual satiety—and subsequent emotional distance. You have to hand
it to those genes of ours. It's a clever way of making sure we engage in as
much fertilization-driven sex as possible—before losing our desire to
remain sexually exclusive with a mate.

Thanks to this innate program, we seldom discover the sense of wellbeing
and contentment that accompanies the move toward equilibrium
using karezza, that is, bonding-centered lovemaking. Instead we tend to
focus on blaming each other for our changed feelings. "If only he would
be more affectionate or supportive." "If only she would stop processing her
feelings and just have sex."

As we will see, this post-orgasmic recovery period is likely to underlie
such diverse phenomena as the one-night stand, the sexless marriage, infidelity,
and porn addiction. It contributes to the common experience that
the honeymoon seldom lasts longer than a year. It is why close friendships
that bloom into love affairs often turn sour.

The bottom line is that the subconscious mating program behind
our spontaneous sexual appetite works perfectly for maximum gene
proliferation. It just doesn't happen to have our individual well-being at
heart. Dutch scientist Gert Holstege, who reported that his brain scans
of men ejaculating look like brain scans of people shooting heroin,16 once
remarked that we are all addicted to sex.17 He was acknowledging that sexual
impulsiveness naturally leads in the direction of satiety—and, given
opportunity, even compulsion.



WHY NOW?
Obviously, humanity's subconscious mating agenda is not a new challenge,
but there are two developments that make it more urgent to cultivate
authentic harmony between couples. First, our culture has changed. Until
recently, across much of the globe, church and state kept a rein on sexual
expression. Marriages were often arranged. Divorce was first impossible,
and then heavily censored. Birth control was unavailable or prohibited.

And unsanctioned relationships were strictly punished. All these features
of life ensured that any emotional separation between partners was partly
masked by the fact that they had to continue to live together and raise their
inevitable children. These circumstances also meant that there was just
plain less fooling around after the honeymoon period (in most couples'
lives). That left relationships stagnant but less volatile.

Today social and civil sanctions in the West cannot hold mates in artificial
bondage. This means that our underlying mammalian mating programming
is ripping couples, and families, apart with increasing efficiency.
As we no longer live in tribes based on mutual support, this outcome is
agonizing for all concerned

// dirty little secrets 
There is some research that casual sex among teenagers can be more harmful than we’ve thought. The adolescent brain’s prefrontal cortex—the part of the brain responsible for judgment—develops at an explosive rate. There are in fact only two times during development that the brain is overrun with synapses (neural connections) in this way: right before birth and right before puberty. At this critical time in preadolescence, the brain manufactures far more synapses than necessary. The synapses that are used become stronger. The ones that aren’t used weaken and die. As a result, certain experiences become sealed in that teen’s growth, in the strong synapses. If they handle intimacy—and sex—in ways that don’t get them what they really want, again and again, they are likely to wind up with a potentially harmful approach to intimacy.4


The distinction between acting on natural sexual feelings and using male attention and sex to fill emptiness is an important one. In this book, I carry the underlying assumption that teenage girls have natural sexual feelings, just like boys, and that perhaps we need to find an outlet for girls to express themselves sexually, an outlet that the girls control themselves, not the cultural expectations about who they should be as sexual creatures. I also try to demarcate what it might look like when a girl has stepped beyond cultural boundaries and has begun using male attention and sex to try to feel worthwhile. And there is a difference: some girls manage to cope with our culture’s lack of space for girls to have sexual feelings, but others struggle and tend to use sexual attention and behavior to harm themselves emotionally. So for the purposes of this book, I refer to self-destructive sexual behavior as promiscuity and to the girls who pursue such self-destructive attention as loose girls.

Without discussion, without creating the space for girls to talk about their sexual experiences, we are left with assumptions that are almost invariably wrong. If we are not virgins, we are called sluts. We get what we deserve and what we wanted. Or—and this emerging view is not as positive as it seems—we are empowered by our sexuality; we are waving our flags of sexual freedom. After all, in this day and age, to suggest that a girl having sex is anything other than empowered and strong is antifeminist.

Meanwhile, the media continues to propagate the double-edged sword, the messages that girls have always received. You must be sexy, but you may not have sex. You must make men want you, but you may not use that to fill your own desires. The women’s studies professor Hugo Schwyzer calls this the Paris paradox, based on Paris Hilton’s comment that she was “sexy but not sexual.”9 He notes that young women raised with Paris Hilton in the limelight were promised sexual freedom but wound up with more obligation than abandon. In other words, girls’ requirement to be sexy greatly outweighs any attention to what might be a natural, authentic sense of their sexual identity.

//
As girls enter adolescence, they also enter another culture, one in which how they appear to others becomes how they exist. “Girls stop being and start seeming,” Pipher notes, quoting Simone de Beauvoir.2

//
Diane Levin and Jean Kilbourne write in their book Sexy So Soon: “[S]ex in commercial culture has far more to do with trivializing and objectifying sex than with promoting it, more to do with consuming than with connecting. The problem is not that sex as portrayed in the media is sinful, but that it is synthetic and cynical.”12 In other words, our media shows sex as something artificial, unnatural, maybe even porn influenced. Think about some of today’s female singers, such as Ke$ha, Rihanna, and Beyoncé, who have expressed their sexuality by accentuating cleavage, wearing stripper heels, and pouting at the camera. How does that have anything to do with real sex or intimacy? Girls learn that male attention—and potentially then romance and love—comes from appearing artificially sexy.

And yet these singers, like most of those in the media outlets that exploit sexuality, are not trying to do anything other than appeal to our demands. Girls want direction for attracting men, and this is how to do it: girls need only learn how to appeal to boys’ sexual desire. Girls take notes on how to make themselves desirable, on how to move, dress, pout, and wear makeup. For the purpose of selling things, learning how to court the male desire for real companionship or intimacy isn’t nearly as provocative.


Valenti also identifies the “desirable virgin,” the feminine ideal of our culture, who is both sexy and not sexual (we’ll explore more about the virgin myth in chapter 3).14 As most of us know, living up to such expectations is all but impossible, but it is particularly tricky for the adolescent girl who is dealing with new sexual curiosity and developmental challenges. On the one hand is abstinence-only education and on the other hand is the push to make themselves desirable: girls learn quickly that there is no happy medium.

//
It is easy to see how genuine sexual desire gets submerged within each girl, even lost. In conversations with adolescent girls, researchers have found that girls will not speak spontaneously about their own desire; rather, they will only speak of their own desire in terms of relationships. In the educational psychologist Deborah Tolman’s research, she found that even when asked directly, many girls don’t quite know how to answer.15 They note that it isn’t something they discuss. They get angry. They giggle. They say they don’t have those kinds of feelings or that they don’t want them. Or some of the young women note that girls just don’t feel desire in that way, unable to claim an “I” voice on the subject. Those who will finally speak about their desire only do so when they feel safe enough to do so, when they can trust that their words will not be manipulated.

Sexual desire for anyone doesn’t exist in a vacuum. Indeed, desire is very much a socially constructed experience, and our society is not keen to include teenage girls in a discourse about sexual desire. We quickly divert such conversations into discussions of virginity and abstinence-only education, the 
perils of teenage pregnancy, or girls as sexual victims. Certainly all of these topics are valid, but nowhere do we have a means for girls to direct the narrative of their own sexual desire.

I can’t help but imagine a society in which girls are allowed this sort of direction. What would it mean for girls to look inward to their talents and strengths and uniqueness, rather than at billboards and television shows and magazines, to find out who they are sexually? What would it mean for girls if they could define their passion through internal avenues of desire? Imagine a girl able to express herself sexually with a boy, unconcerned about how her body looks or whether he thinks she’s sexy. Imagine a girl who trusts that when she does express herself in that way, boys will respect her as an equal partner and the rest of her community will celebrate her strength and passion rather than judge her as a whore.

If we are to break down all the reasons we aren’t there yet culturally, we must first look at why girls aren’t permitted to have this freedom. For a girl, sexual feeling itself becomes tied to being looked at. Without any cultural guidance about sexual desire, we can only ascertain that we must look a certain way to even have sexual feelings. Well-known feminist author Naomi Wolf notes: “Men take this core for granted in themselves: We see that, sanctioned by the culture, men’s sexuality simply is. They do not have to earn it with their appearance. We see that men’s desire precedes contact with women.”16

Women’s desire does not always come before that of a man’s desire for her. We know, in fact, that women’s sexual desire is often dependent on being desired. In a New York Times Magazine article about female desire, the psychologist Marta Meana determined that “women’s desire is not relational, it’s narcissistic. It is dominated by the yearnings of ‘self-love,’ by the wish to be the object of erotic admiration and sexual need.”17

In other words, a women’s physical arousal is in direct relation to how much she is wanted—gazed at, one might say—by another. It is difficult to imagine how such desire is not at least somewhat culturally created, how it is at least partially, as Wolf suggests in her quote, tied up with a sense of permission—it is safe to be a desiring woman now that someone else has suggested I am acceptable.

Charlene is a good example of this. She grew up in a tough neighborhood. She watched her single mother scramble to pay the bills. Her father was long gone. She had one sister who was four years younger, so she didn’t feel like she had anyone she could relate to. The first time she felt a boy look at her with longing in his eyes, she knew it was something to pay attention to. She spent the greater part of her teens “boy hunting,” she said. She wanted to feel that she was desired, because at home she felt so completely undesired. When she felt sexual desire, she told me, it was entirely about that fantasy. If some hot guy with status wanted her, she got turned on and couldn’t help herself from having sex with him. The feeling, she said, was intoxicating, because those were the only times her body felt alive with desire, which made her feel alive, period.

These false beliefs—“I’m not good enough, pretty enough, thin enough, quiet enough…”—are one of the defining features of girlhood. For loose girls, sex and sexual attention become the answer to these beliefs. They possess the potential to make us good enough, pretty enough, lovable enough. This is why promiscuous behavior for a loose girl doesn’t end in adolescence. It often grows into an addiction of sorts. We try and try again to make the sex mean something about us. But ultimately it only harms us further.

Often, too, teenage girls’ experience of desire is subverted and redirected into narratives about male attention. This might be partially due to hormones, but certainly it’s also a result of cultural expectation. Genuine sexual desire is lost inside the power of getting that attention. The influence of this, the heady control of getting a boy or man to look our way, to desire us, is perhaps the easiest way for girls to feel any kind of influence when it comes to their sexuality. In a culture where girls’ genuine sexual desire is shrouded in silence, where there is no language of ownership for girls’ own sexual feelings, it is easy to see how girls gravitate toward this kind of power.

Like Faith at the swimming pool, a girl’s sexual maturity must be something of a paradox. Look, but don’t look. Touch, but don’t touch. In this way, being a girl is invariably tied up with need and negation, and with how a girl must negotiate those opposing forces.

For boys, it is entirely different.


Everywhere I turned there was a new one. I can remember my boyfriend coming to see me [at college] for the first time, and I came rushing up from another boy’s dorm room having just had sex, only to then have sex with him.


Kelsey was always jealous of boys. In grade school she wanted to be Batman or Spider-Man during recess, but she had to be Batgirl or the girl being saved. She developed early, with breasts in the fourth grade. Both boys and girls teased her regularly. They called her “Chesty” instead of Kelsey, and most who used to be her friends turned on her because they didn’t want to be associated with her. She cried often, which didn’t help, and she begged her mother to move to a different school district.

In fifth grade, she began to develop crushes on boys. They were all boys she knew she could never have, but still, she made up elaborate fantasies of them pulling her aside and telling her they secretly loved her. She imagined them kissing her, how their lips might feel on hers. And she imagined them offering to take her away from her life, to live just the two of them on an island where it didn’t matter if kids went to school.

And in sixth grade, when one of the cashiers at the Burger King down the street from her house suggested she meet him in the bathroom, she did so willingly, feeling that finally someone might want her. He lifted her shirt and kneaded her breasts, and then he told her to jerk him off. He didn’t kiss her once. He didn’t even ask her name, but he wore a name tag: Greg. She said she will never forget his name. He was her first sexual experience, her first understanding that boys could do something for her, something no one else could. Even though Greg never asked her into the bathroom again, even though she felt rejected and confused by what had happened, the experience set her on a search she is still stuck inside—a search for boys’ attention. She has since given blow jobs in stairwells at school, had sex in boys’ parents’ cars parked in driveways. She has had anal sex with a friend’s nineteen-year-old brother. None of them has tried to have a relationship with her. None has fallen in love with her. None of her fantasies about what boys can do for her—save her, release her, love her—has come true. But at sixteen she can’t seem to stop. At sixteen, boys still have the only solution Kelsey can see to her feelings of being undesirable.

Kelsey’s story is painstakingly familiar. I too spent much of my life believing a boy could save me from my pain. I too felt irrepressibly drawn to boys. I too couldn’t help myself. There was something about them. Sometimes, still, I can feel it: boy crazy. Other girls feel the same way. Here are some quotes about their own stories from some of the girls I interviewed:

“I felt like a shell of a person that only came alive when a boy or a man noticed me. I felt like the whole world revolved around being noticed and wanted by a boy or a man.”

“My experiences with boys feel like obsession, like there’s nothing more appealing in the world.”

“I get completely gaga over boys.”

“Without a boy in my life I feel like I don’t exist.”

“What is it about boys?”


For a girl, sex is dangerous. It is a motorcycle ride; it is rushing carelessly along a highway, heading somewhere, hair wild in the wind. On that motorcycle is the man who takes her on the ride, her arms wrapped around a firm, protective chest. That kind of wild, carefree sex is everything a girl can’t have, unless she is willing to become a slut. Unless she wants to become potentially unmarriageable, unworthy of respect. Sex is that bad boy. Naomi Wolf in Promiscuities writes, “The demon lover’s tendency toward chaos and escape and risk and selfishness may be seen as a projection of inadmissible female longings onto the male—a way of safely handling and vicariously experiencing the release of women’s own wish sometimes to be ‘out of control.’”2 No wonder bad boys are so appealing to so many girls! No wonder they will do whatever they must to get inside that experience with such a boy! For her, sexual feeling is only allowed in the presence of a boy who can contain her, who will take responsibility for the wildness and loss of control. Boys become the stand-in for everything she can’t do herself, and she winds up playing out all her drama, discovery, and passion in her relationships with those boys.

A girl doesn’t need to feel sad or lost or hurt to become a loose girl. She simply needs to want freedom, to want the wingspan that will let her live her desires. This, I suspect, is why plenty of girls I interviewed suffered through so many of the same feelings but didn’t have loveless childhoods. At the core, loose girls are a cultural problem. Yes, difficulty at home can exacerbate looseness. Yes, abuse and molestation make the problem much, much worse. But the bottom line is that girls get attached to boys and male attention because our culture allows boys the sorts of freedoms girls want.

Two-thirds of girls younger than age 18 choose sex partners who are close to their age, and a mere 7 percent choose partners who are six or more years older.3 But men older than high school age account for 77 percent of births among girls age 16–18 and for 51 percent of births among girls age 15 and younger. Men older than age 25 father twice as many births with teenage girls than do boys younger than 18.4 So, while teenage girls partnering with older men is not a significant trend, when it does happen, it seems that girls wind up with older men as the fathers of their children.

Why do some girls want older men? A few of the girls I interviewed told me they felt that teenage boys were immature and that they liked how the older men treated them, referring to dinners and gifts. One noted, “It doesn’t hurt that they have cars, too.” It does seem that girls who like older men gravitate to their money, but research also suggests that girls who choose men so far out of their age ranges also tend toward low self-esteem and depression.5 Many of these girls are looking to replace their abusive or difficult families with new ones. They often perceive the men as white knights who will save them from whatever pain they’re suffering at home.

Regardless of the girls’ claims, men who choose teenage girls tend to be immature and insecure, with egos matching those of teenage boys.6 Many have criminal histories, so they are not the safe havens girls make them out to be. Of course, partnering with a teenage girl under the age of consent is statutory rape, not to be taken lightly.

Grown men who choose adolescents as sex partners tend to have these immaturities, but they also simply learned about girls from our culture. They, like all boys, learn from media that girls aren’t worth more than their looks and their accessibility for sex; they absorb this message as completely as girls do. Boys erroneously learn, just as girls do, that boys are horny and girls aren’t, and that it is up to the girls to protect their morality by fending off boys’ advances. They learn that boys choose girls, not the other way around. And they learn that the more girls a boy can score, the more manly he is.

It is easy to see how these messages can lead boys to behave badly, to try to get girls in bed and dump them just as quickly, to not feel any sort of responsibility for their sexual behavior in the world. It is also easy to see how we don’t vilify or shame boys for their sexual behavior the way we do with girls. That double standard is still entirely alive and well. Although it might seem that boys get away with murder in this respect, the truth is that—just like girls—they get pigeonholed away from real intimacy. Our culture’s expectations regarding sex harm boys, too. Boys learn that they should want sex, pursue it, and be good at it. They don’t, however, learn about the emotional potentials that come along with their desire, and they don’t learn that most boys share a similar awkwardness and curiosity, along with the excitement and awe, when it comes to sex. In Real Boys: Rescuing Our Sons from the Myths of Boyhood, William Pollack argues that boys’ ravenous sexual appetites are more often than not a cover for their fear of sexual humiliation.7

Imagine, if you will, boys and girls exploring sexually and safely in a loving, kind way. Imagine they could learn about how to have relationships, could communicate about their needs, without cultural and parental shaming. Sad how much this vision seems like an impossible dream. Before we can look more closely at ways to rectify this, let’s examine the role of the girl more closely. After all, as boys are boxed into being owners of their sexual identity, girls are given very few options about who they can be when it comes to sex.

//
I am still desperate for male attention, and I feel unwanted, ugly, and needy. Sometimes, I don’t like aspects of my personality. Why am I so selfish? So loud? So unfocused?

//
The virgin myth also assumes that girls have a much lower sex drive than boys, that they don’t want sex. It assumes, in fact, that girls are responsible for fending off boys’ out-of-control, aggressive libidos. (You can see how easily this notion leads to the deduction that girls can be responsible for their own rapes: “If you dress in sexy clothes, boys can’t control themselves,” or “If you let a boy kiss you or get sexually excited in any way, you shouldn’t be surprised when he can’t help himself, even as you say ‘no’”).

In this way, virgins are assigned a false strength. The virgin teen who was to be on television with me, as well as girls holding the title of Miss Teen America and other spokespeople for abstinence, often comment on how they believe they are stronger than those girls who “give in” to their sexual urges or need for attention. In other words, a girl’s strength comes from doing nothing, as opposed to from actually doing something in the world, such as being a powerful athlete or saying truths that are unpopular but necessary. This is especially troublesome because it also suggests that there is no possibility for healthy sexual exploration. In this scenario, all sexual activity equals giving away one’s power. There is no possibility that a girl can have sexual experiences and still be powerful. Having sexual experiences renders girls weak and helpless.

Most important, though, the virgin myth emphasizes the idea that a girl is only worth as much as she’s able to keep her legs closed. Forget compassion, honesty, integrity, or kindness. As Jessica Valenti notes in The Purity Myth, “For women especially, virginity has become the easy answer—the morality quick fix. You can be vapid, stupid, and unethical, but so long as you’ve never had sex, you’re a ‘good’ (i.e., ‘moral’) girl and therefore worthy of praise.”1 She notes that this view is just one more way that we value women most for their bodies and sexuality, and for what they do with those.

We even throw virgins parties. In the past decade, we’ve seen the growth of “purity balls.” At such events, begun as a Christian response to rising teen pregnancy and STD rates, adolescent girls pledge their virginities to their fathers until they will wed, and fathers vow to protect their daughters’ chastity. There is white cake, exchanged vows, and a first dance, just like at a real wedding. Regardless of the creepiness of twelve- and thirteen-year-old girls having commitment ceremonies with their fathers, the key point is that the balls don’t work. Out of a study of twelve thousand girls, those who had participated in purity balls had the same rate of STDs as those who didn’t pledge their virginity, and 88 percent break their pledges and have premarital sex.2

In so many ways, these sorts of ceremonies set girls up for failure. It might be easy for a twelve-year-old girl to say she won’t have sex before marriage, but three years later, she realizes how much she likes boys and sexual experiences. Or as her brain develops further, she begins to think, Wait a minute. How come I can’t have pleasurable physical interactions and boys can? (After all, where are the mother-son pledge balls? Good luck finding one.) Or, even more likely, she comes to know that her value as a girl is tied up with whether boys want to get with her, and to get boys’ attention, she will need to be sexy, and—well, combined with the fact that sex and attention feel good—you can see how easily those pledges become a distant, silly fantasy.

This is not to say that a girl choosing to stay a virgin isn’t a perfectly acceptable decision for a teen girl. But so is choosing to have sex. The girls are not to blame here. It’s the abstinence train, the coopting, once again, of a girl’s control over her own sexual choices.

That societal pressure to be abstinent has resulted in issues way more dangerous than a girl choosing to have sex: the pressure to exclude information about birth control in sex education and the refusal to supply condoms to sexually active teens. When girls don’t know enough about how to keep themselves safe, when they don’t have easy access to the very things that make them safe, then we’re complicit in the fact that they are unprotected from STDs and pregnancy. If we, the adults, are responsible for our teens’ physical safety, then we are failing them in this way.

Equally important, the abstinence train has denied us this discussion around teenage girls and sex, and it has indirectly contributed to why many girls—the loose girls—use sex as a means of self-harm. When we tell girls sex and sexual feelings are bad, when we tell them they are bad when they act sexually, they will believe us, and they will use it as a way to punish themselves on their own. If we make sex subversive, then we shouldn’t be surprised when girls use sex—something that should be, that is, perfectly natural—as though it were fraught with as many dangers as alcohol. And we shouldn’t be surprised when they wind up furious and hurt by the way our culture betrays girls in this way again and again.

//
If nothing is more frightening than a woman’s desire, then a young girl’s desire is even more horrifying. We ostracize because we are jealous; the slut is the one getting all the male attention. Or we ostracize the slut because we want to protect our girls, because there is some sense that all sex-related behaviors for girls will lead to harm. Or we ostracize simply because we are afraid of what feels different and unfamiliar. Whatever the reason, when we banish the slut, more often than not it’s the punishment that harms her, not her behavior.

In fact, if she embraces her behavior, it can earn her a different label. Where for years no one wanted to be called a slut, more recently, being a slut can be a self-proclaimed badge of honor. Meet the “empowered” girl.


THE EMPOWERED GIRL

Something new has entered the culture of women. Lynn M. Phillips, in Flirting with Danger, calls this the “together woman discourse,” in which women are “sassy” and free in their sexual agency, but in actuality, that “freedom” is limited to a heterosexual stance, one that aims to attract men.7 In Female Chauvinist Pigs, Ariel Levy refers to it as “raunch culture,” a culture in which some women have co-opted what men think is sexy and made it supposedly empowering.8 She includes such examples as Girls Gone Wild, pole-dancing lessons, striptease marathons, and women who buy Playboy. Tied up with this is the idea that being a slut is a good thing. It means you’re strong, in control of your sexuality. The notion starts in the right direction—women can own their sexuality—but it’s almost as if, more often than not, women fall back into the familiar tire grooves of what men desire about women’s sexuality.

Certainly, this empowered-girl culture has invaded adolescence as well. Thirteen-year-old girls proudly extol their abilities to give blow jobs, which they do in the bathrooms at parties or at school. Middle and high schoolers have sex parties. Girls compete with one another to dress as slutty as possible. In Unhooked: How Young Women Pursue Sex, Delay Love, and Lose at Both, Laura Sessions Stepp notes that, in our hookup culture, teenage girls have abandoned dating and courting altogether and are simply engaging in sexual acts with others.9 They don’t have to want to be boyfriend and girlfriend. They don’t have to even like each other.

This may sound empowered, but think about how it would be perceived if such a girl didn’t have a male partner, or at least didn’t attract one, or if she gave off the vibe that she needed a man. Would she be seen as empowered—or pathetic? Such sexual behavior smacks of the same intentions Levy identified in her interviews with women about raunch culture. If girls have no interest in boys beyond getting their attention and giving blow jobs, then what exactly are they getting out of the arrangement other than the reputation that comes along with it? If they don’t need boys’ sexual attention, why are they competing for their attention? How exactly is this empowering for them?

Girls and women like Ramona, and like these commenters, carry pride about their sexual behavior, similar to the sort of studly pride we see in boys. A proportion of our culture, tired of the old double standards about sex, have begun to say, “We can have sex because we want to!” Put another way, “We can have sex like men! We can treat our sexuality like men treat theirs!”

Certainly, I agree with this motive, and oh, how I wish we could. But as Levy argues, empowerment in the form of stripping classes and posing for risqué spring-break videos means using the same degrading method a patriarchal society has used to control women to degrade oneself. I would argue that handing out blow jobs like candy could be defined the same way.

“Let’s not kid ourselves that this is liberation,” Erica Jong said to Ariel Levy. “The women who buy the idea that flaunting your breasts in sequins is power—I mean, I’m all for that stuff—but let’s not get so into the tits and ass that we don’t notice how far we haven’t come. Let’s not confuse that with real power.”12 That power would surely include some sense of ownership over our sexual identities; it would surely include girls’ understanding that sexual desire lives in them, not in boys’ attention to them. Lynn Phillips adds that this notion of empowerment “supports an illusion that young women’s supposed autonomy and entitlement somehow insulate them from the possibility of victimization,” which explains the anger at Jezebel over my sense that, for the most part, my experience with sex had sucked.13

I can’t assume anything about how Ramona really feels. Perhaps she truly does enjoy her conquests. But while I applaud the idea of a girl going out there and doing with sex whatever she damn well pleases, I don’t quite believe that such an achievement is uniformly possible. As Jong suggests, we have much too far to go. Our society is still much too steeped in a double standard about sex for me to believe that anyone, particularly anyone so young, can exist so entirely outside cultural expectations. Also, girls having sex with whomever they want, whenever they want, and without the desire for anything more, seems, like Levy noted, to be a little too close to men’s fantasies about girls and women. I’m not convinced that this should be the primary model we put forth for women’s sexual freedom.

//
Many of the girls I spoke with who identified as loose girls shared with me the ways they acted out in their neediness. They called boys too much. They texted and emailed them constantly. They pushed them away with their desperation. When they tell me these stories, I can see their eyes move to the floor. I can hear their voices drop. They hesitate. The shame they feel about their neediness is much worse than any shame they might feel about their sexual behavior.

Cynthia told me that after the last guy had sex with her and never called again, she texted him five times before he finally wrote back, “Don’t contact me again, freak.” She spent the rest of the day in bed, unable to move. His words had confirmed for her exactly what she feared was true about her: there was something different about her, something different from every other girl, who seemed to be able to take or leave a guy, whereas once she got a boy’s attention, she could think of nothing else but how to make him love her.

Cynthia’s dirty little secret is not sex. Like that of all loose girls, her dirtiest secret is her need.

//
Children—perhaps especially teenagers—are hyperaware of hypocrisy. Communication to teens about sex—from media, from parents, from educational institutions—is loaded with mixed messages. Teenagers look perhaps most critically at their parents for hypocrisy and will quickly dismiss a mother’s admonishments if she isn’t following the same advice. And if a mom is acting out sexually, needing too much attention from men, or even focusing too much on romance, girls pick up those messages more than anything else that might be said.
This is not to say that all loose girls have loose-girl mothers, but having a loose-girl mother generally means that the mother is somewhat oblivious, which won’t help her daughter’s emotional health when it comes to sex. Research shows that parents who are insecurely attached—meaning that important bonds were disrupted when they were children—tend to parent in ways that pass on that insecurity to their daughters.14


//
Every once in a while, I hear positive stories, too. I know a fourteen-year-old girl named Nel who recently started dating, and one evening she came home with a hickey on her neck. Her mother saw it, let her daughter know she saw it, and told her that she was fine with that hickey. Her concern, she let Nel know, was that Nel was making choices she wanted to make. She only wanted to be sure that Nel felt comfortable with what was happening and that she wouldn’t do something she didn’t really want to do. At first Nel rolled her eyes and said, “I know, Mom!” But about an hour later, Nel came back to her mother and said that she did realize that sometimes boys wanted to do more than she felt ready for, and sometimes even she wanted to do more than she was sure she was ready for. Nel and her mother wound up having a long, open discussion about how boys are always considered the horny, sexual aggressors, but really there were things girls wanted to do, too. But girls are very aware that if they let boys know they want those things, they quickly get labeled “sluts.” Nel and her mother agreed that this was unfair, and together they discussed ways Nel could work her way around this double standard while still staying true to herself, such as by thinking through her sexual behavior before acting, and perhaps even talking to her mother about it first.

Sometimes the media gets it right also. One mother-daughter sex talk that received lots of attention for being honest, realistic, and all-around positive came from the NBC drama Friday Night Lights. On the show, the character Tami, Julie’s mother, treats Julie with respect, asking her open-ended questions about her feelings and experiences. She also shares her own honest feelings. Here is an excerpt:

Tami: “And you know, just ’cause you’re having sex this one time doesn’t mean that you have to all the time, and you know if it ever feels like he’s taking you for granted, or you’re not enjoying it you can stop anytime…and if you ever break up with Matt it’s not like you have sex with the next boy necessarily.” (She tears up.)

Julie: “Why are you crying?”

Tami: “Because I wanted you to wait…but that’s just because I want to protect you because I love you, and I want to make sure nothing bad ever happens to you. And I always want you to always be able to talk to me even if it’s about something so hard like this.”

Julie: “I didn’t want to disappoint you.” (Tami shakes her head and hugs Julie.)15

A conversation like this one, and like the one Nel and her mother had, is a great example of mothers encouraging and supporting open dialogue about sex while respecting their daughters’ thoughts and feelings. In both examples, too, the mothers take responsibilities for their feelings about their daughters’ sexual behavior rather than projecting those feelings on the girls. This is a big difference from the kinds of conversations I hear about too often—one in which a mother simply tells her daughter that she should not have sex until she is married, or alternatively, one in which the mother is trying to be her daughter’s best friend. When a mother shares too much of her own past experiences with sex, or when she encourages her daughter’s sexual feelings as a way of validating her own, she crosses a boundary, one that can feel violating to a girl.

So a balance such as the ones Nel’s mother and Julie’s mother managed to find—where they remained their daughters’ mothers, guiding them and providing safety for the girls while also supporting their daughters’ feelings and sexual discovery—is a difficult balance indeed. Mothers have a unique responsibility here, one they must take very seriously as they navigate their ways through the treacherous field of a teenage girl’s sexual discovery.

This has been a long-standing stumbling block. My mother’s generation had mothers that tended toward silence. They simply didn’t speak about sex to their daughters. One day, the daughter’s period arrived, the mother took her to get Kotex, and that was it. They were told to not have sex before marriage. The end. Some of the mothers of my generation tried to do things differently, but many went too far the other way, offering too much about sex, breaking boundaries, wanting to share like friends. The mothers of today have still been mostly left out in the cold with this subject, mainly because mothers are women, which means no one has told them that their desire was normal when they were growing up, that it is a necessary part of the equation when it comes to sexual development. Mothers so often feel helpless in the face of this task of guiding their daughters safely through the wild, roaring rapids of adolescent sexuality. They try to tell their daughters what they need to know. They warn them. But such tactics don’t work with adolescents, who need to know that their knowledge and beliefs are respected. The most important thing a mother can do, really, is to just listen.

//
My father was the main man I turned to in order to understand the male species. I looked to him for a sense of what men liked in women. My father’s immense inappropriateness showed me that men liked girls who were pretty and sexy. He also let me know that men preferred girls who didn’t make waves, who didn’t need too much. Meanwhile, I needed so much that he wasn’t giving me. Because my mother was gone, I needed him to give me emotional attention. I needed him to care about my feelings, to guide me down a positive path. I needed him to listen—really listen—to what I had to say, to not demean my feelings, and to show interest in what I did.

Fathers don’t need to be physically absent to abandon their daughters. There are many ways to leave. Many fathers worry about how to negotiate boundaries—particularly regarding physical contact—with their sexually blossoming daughters, but they often set up bigger boundaries than necessary. Some physically withdraw, unwilling to provide affection anymore. Others become more controlling with their daughters. Both reactions set a girl up to feel left out, misunderstood, and treated unfairly.

Many fathers also make the mistake of stepping away from their daughters because their daughters pull away from them first or because they suddenly don’t understand who this angry, easily hurt girl is. For many fathers—my own included—girls are overwhelming creatures, so different from boys. Many fathers don’t know how to handle them.

My sister’s room and my room were down a long hallway, and I remember my father racing past that hallway. It seemed to us like he didn’t want to know what was down that hall. He was terrified of us. We exasperated him. Two teenage girls! He had grown up with brothers and didn’t have a clue as to how to deal with our outbursts, our needs, and our sadness.

In these situations, though, fathers must find ways to do the opposite. They need to actively engage their daughters, to ask them about their interests, their hopes, and their feelings. They must find ways to push past the discomfort and awkwardness that can at times accompany such interactions. Daughters need their fathers. They need every possible person who might love them—who might care about how they feel or might care what happens to them—to actively show them that they do.

Fathers are likewise in an excellent position to teach their girls about the various ways our culture degrades and disrespects females. They can clarify that they will not treat women that way and that they won’t stand for people treating their daughters that way either. They can address how girls are expected to look good rather than do good. They can encourage them to get involved in something that isn’t about what boys want from them, and they can support their daughters’ talents in sports, arts, and intellectual pursuits.

At the same time, they can be understanding that many of their daughters will want to be attractive to boys, will concern themselves with “typical” girl interests, such as clothes and makeup. They can both be careful to not judge those interests and make clear that what makes their daughters special in the world is who they are, not what they look like. This is a hard one, because every last message girls get from mainstream culture suggests the opposite. Every last message tells girls that they are the sum of their physical parts, that they can tell whether they matter in the world by whether boys like them. Fathers are in a unique position to show them that men can feel otherwise, that girls can be wholly loved simply by being themselves.


An odd response to this effort, though, is the purity ball, which we explored briefly in chapter 3. Purity balls are Christian ceremonies in which girls pledge their virginity to their fathers and fathers vow to protect their daughters’ chastity. Girls wear white gowns, fathers wear tuxes, and they slow dance after their vows. But the reasoning behind the creation of these ceremonies might not be what you expect. In a TLC special about them, Randy Wilson of Generation of Light, the Christian organization that founded purity balls, noted that all girls have the same questions: “Am I beautiful? Am I worth pursuing?” He said that 

fathers needed to answer this question for them so they didn’t go out into the world to find out from someone else.10 While I can get behind the idea that fathers need to be an active part of their daughter’s self-esteem, this idea that girls need to feel beautiful—and therefore worth pursuing—distresses me. If fathers focus on their daughter’s appearance, just like the rest of the world is already doing, they miss out on the chance to teach their daughters that they are worth pursuing for much better reasons.

Worse, the purity balls drop all the control over who a girl can be as a sexual creature into fathers’ laps—into men’s laps. The message is this: “Men know what’s best for you. Your father decides who you can be sexually.” It would make much more sense to me to have mothers and daughters in such ceremonies, where mothers pledge to share their wisdom and guidance regarding sex, and where daughters vow to communicate with their mothers about their sexual exploration.

Janice’s story is a good example that shows how purity balls, and the intention behind them, miss the mark on what girls need from their fathers. Her father died from cancer when she was eleven, just as she was in the throes of puberty. She has many positive memories of him comforting her when she was scared, playing games with her, and reading to her at bedtime. Janice’s mother was devastated after his death, and Janice remembers those first few years as grief stricken and painful. Her mother was a mess, barely capable of taking care of Janice and her younger brother. But over time, the grief softened, and their household felt less dreary. That is when Janice began to find boys. Her mother started dating again just as Janice did, too, and her mother fell immediately for a man whom Janice didn’t get along with. Soon, he became her stepfather, which only made Janice feel lonelier. He was nothing like her father, and Janice didn’t understand why her mother would choose him. Janice started hooking up with boys, which was not really satisfying but gave her something to look forward to. She experienced a sort of high, she told me, when a boy turned his eyes to her body and she knew she had some sort of control over him. She loved the feeling of connection, of her body pressed against someone else’s, the sense of safety, of solidity. A boy’s presence felt like the opposite of having lost her dad. Janice did not want a relationship with any of them. She only wanted those brief moments of connection.

The problem was that she felt awful afterward. Every time they went their separate ways, Janice felt the familiar pain of abandonment. In other words, she craved a momentary sense of intimacy, much like the intimacy she was now missing from her father, but she didn’t want the long-term responsibility of a relationship with some boy. Add to this that the boys at her school began to talk, and soon she became known as a girl who would put out.

In college, Janice finally had a chance to start over, but the pain she held in her heart about her father never went away. She felt desperately confused. She world to find out from someone else.10 While I can get behind the idea that fathers need to be an active part of their daughter’s self-esteem, this idea that girls need to feel beautiful—and therefore worth pursuing—distresses me. If fathers focus on their daughter’s appearance, just like the rest of the world is already doing, they miss out on the chance to teach their daughters that they are worth pursuing for much better reasons.

Worse, the purity balls drop all the control over who a girl can be as a sexual creature into fathers’ laps—into men’s laps. The message is this: “Men know what’s best for you. Your father decides who you can be sexually.” It would make much more sense to me to have mothers and daughters in such ceremonies, where mothers pledge to share their wisdom and guidance regarding sex, and where daughters vow to communicate with their mothers about their sexual exploration.

Janice’s story is a good example that shows how purity balls, and the intention behind them, miss the mark on what girls need from their fathers. Her father died from cancer when she was eleven, just as she was in the throes of puberty. She has many positive memories of him comforting her when she was scared, playing games with her, and reading to her at bedtime. Janice’s mother was devastated after his death, and Janice remembers those first few years as grief stricken and painful. Her mother was a mess, barely capable of taking care of Janice and her younger brother. But over time, the grief softened, and their household felt less dreary. That is when Janice began to find boys. Her mother started dating again just as Janice did, too, and her mother fell immediately for a man whom Janice didn’t get along with. Soon, he became her stepfather, which only made Janice feel lonelier. He was nothing like her father, and Janice didn’t understand why her mother would choose him. Janice started hooking up with boys, which was not really satisfying but gave her something to look forward to. She experienced a sort of high, she told me, when a boy turned his eyes to her body and she knew she had some sort of control over him. She loved the feeling of connection, of her body pressed against someone else’s, the sense of safety, of solidity. A boy’s presence felt like the opposite of having lost her dad. Janice did not want a relationship with any of them. She only wanted those brief moments of connection.

The problem was that she felt awful afterward. Every time they went their separate ways, Janice felt the familiar pain of abandonment. In other words, she craved a momentary sense of intimacy, much like the intimacy she was now missing from her father, but she didn’t want the long-term responsibility of a relationship with some boy. Add to this that the boys at her school began to talk, and soon she became known as a girl who would put out.

In college, Janice finally had a chance to start over, but the pain she held in her heart about her father never went away. She felt desperately confused. She still had never had a boyfriend, and she wasn’t sure she could ever trust a boy to not leave her, especially after the way they treated her in high school.

Janice’s story is an example of how complicated father issues can be. They are rarely straightforward. For Janice, so many issues were at play. The first, of course, is that she lost her father and was left to struggle with her grief in a way for which no one was to blame. Then Janice faced cultural expectations at her high school about her sexual behavior. Over time, this too affected who she would wind up as in relation to boys. Finally, there is the fact that her mother remarried a man with whom Janice felt no connection. Those three wounds entangled themselves inside Janice’s experience of herself as a sexual person and as a person who could have a relationship.

Would a purity ball have saved Janice? The question is outrageous enough to reveal how impotent such a solution is for most people. Most girls don’t live the fairy-tale lives such a ceremony promises. They lose people, their parents divorce, they are sexually abused, they are made fun of and excluded. When they grow up, men rarely arrive on white horses, like they did for Cinderella and Sleeping Beauty. Men rarely show up at the father’s door and offer to take over caring for the father’s daughter. And why would we want that for our girls anyway? Why aim to treat our girls like helpless princesses when they can instead relish their competence as surgeons, welders, artists, scientists, and teachers? When they can do something worthwhile in the world, not just look good on someone’s arm?

Such an approach has the power to keep our daughters safe from all sorts of self-harming behavior, not just promiscuity. In the next chapter, we look at these other means of self-harm.

//
In almost every email I receive from readers, girls ask me why they can know their behavior hurts them, and yet can’t seem to stop. They know they are having sex for the wrong reasons. They know they need something from it that they won’t actually get, that they are setting themselves up to feel even worse. There are many answers to why loose girls have trouble stopping the behavior, but an important one to consider is that the behavior is an addiction.

ADDICTION AND THE LOOSE GIRL

I’ve gotten some flak for using the word addiction attached to the idea of loose-girl behavior.
But these issues are rightfully addiction, too—they are not chemical addictions, no, but process addictions, which is an addiction to an activity as opposed to an addiction to something that is ingested. Process addictions include spending money, gambling, Internet use, and—you guessed it—sex and love. A person with a process addiction is after psychological gratification and will indulge in their “drug” of choice enough that he or she build up a sort of dependency. The danger of process addictions occurs when the activity gets in the way of one’s daily life functioning or leads a person to harm his or her body, as with eating disorders. Sex and love addictions are example of pseudorelationship addictions, a type of process addiction, which are so integrated into our society, often considered the norm, that it is tricky to decipher what is truly an experience of addiction and what is simply a bad relationship.

Perhaps it helps to define addiction. Craig Nakken, author of The Addictive Personality, defines addiction as an attempt to control the uncontrollable cycles we all experience in our lives.9 We all experience loss and heartache. We all don’t get what we want plenty of times in our lives. But when a person uses a particular object, event, or another person to try to control how that feels, to produce a desired mood change, and when that person has to use this thing to feel better, that is addiction.

Those mood changes can also be thought of as intoxication. So when a sex addict experiences an uplifted mood while in a sex shop, that is a sex addict acting out her addiction. Or when a boy looks at a loose girl and smiles, and she winds up forgetting all the other plans she had for that evening so she can focus on making that boy hers, that is the loose girl acting out her addiction. The point that crosses this behavior over to addiction is the loose girl’s inability to attend to anything else in the face of feeding her desire. When her life has become unmanageable, to use the language of the twelve-step programs, when she has lost something that ultimately matters more to her, such as a long-term, loving relationship, a chance to have children, a career, she has entered into a phase we can frame as addiction. Or, perhaps put best, when she keeps doing it even though she really, really wants to stop, she has entered the world of addiction.

One way that loose girls are different from, say, girls who are just moving through a phase, or from girls who really want sex and are only troubled because it’s not accepted by society, is that loose girls know that what they are doing hurts them, but they can’t seem to stop. This is why I classify the behavior as addiction. This is where it is different from healthy sexual behavior. Loose girls don’t have sex for the right reasons, or at the least for reasons that will benefit them. They have sex to maintain the addiction, which is the same reason smokers keep smoking long after they want to quit or that pot smokers keep waking and baking long after they’ve decided their drug use isn’t working for them anymore.

****************************************************************
Also, it’s important to acknowledge what is beneath the addiction, which is always the kind of tremendous pain and despair we saw in Beth’s story. So many addictions are attempts to escape anguish. The more the addict escapes it by pursuing his addiction, the more tremendous and unmanageable that pain seems to be. With chemical addictions, that sense becomes reality because the addict literally changes the brain’s ability to feel pleasure. With process addictions, that sense of terror about one’s pain is largely a result of anxiety. When a person avoids the thing causing her anxiety, the avoidance becomes evidence that the thing is worthy of feeling anxiety about. It’s a sort of circular reasoning we do when it comes to anxiety. In reality, the thing causing the anxiety is rarely as horrible and terrifying as our anxiety makes us believe it is. So, while the pain behind addiction is very real, it is usually not as insurmountable as we feel it is. It might be initially, because it’s been unattended to for so long and because it’s a new thing to feel it, but over time we desensitize to its false strength.

//
I certainly experienced this ambiguity myself. I wanted to have sex, sort of. But the desire I had for sex was so completely submerged beneath my desire for attention and love that I couldn’t be sure if that were true. Every time I had sex, I had no sexual agency, no sense of my own sexual desire. Instead, my neediness controlled my sexual choices. In this way, I had no sexual self, no self that wanted to have sex for sex’s sake. If there was no clear sexual self, then how could I consent to anything? I had absolutely no connection, no consciousness or awareness about the part of me that might want in an unadulterated way to have sex.

In truth, few girls have access to that sexual self. The sexual self is buried deeply beneath all the ways we have worked culturally to keep girls from having a sexual consciousness. Lee Jacobs Riggs writes in an essay:

I let him touch me, never saying no, never saying yes, never probing too much into what his on-and-off girlfriend knew or thought about it. At the same time, I reclaimed the word “slut,” told my friends it was good, I wanted it. I excelled at giving blowjobs because I had wanted to excel at something.

Who knows what I wanted. I know that I had a need to assert myself as a sexual person to a world that had tried to erase that part of me that I felt so significantly. I know that I didn’t want him, but I did want something.9

I heard the same sentiment from many of the girls I interviewed. They too had acquaintance rape experiences—they thought. They too hadn’t necessarily wanted to have sex with most of the boys they had had sex with—they thought. The uncertainty I heard again and again is suggestive that many girls—all girls, not just loose girls—don’t have access to a part of themselves that might know what it wants regarding sex. If you don’t know what you want, how can you articulate clearly what it is?

The age-of-consent law, which is the state-by-state determined age by which point a girl is allowed to consent, was established to protect young girls, but it’s easy to see how it furthers the notion that until a girl reaches the age of consent—usually sixteen or seventeen—no consent is acknowledged. Before that age, she is the victim of statutory rape. So, for example, a girl who is fourteen may date a boy who is seventeen. Their relationship might include all the typical excitement and feelings of love and drama found in teenage relationships. But if they have sex, mutually consented to in their minds, the boy can be convicted of statutory rape, and the girl can be left with confusion about this idea that she’s been “raped.” If she understands, as most girls do, that rape means she was forced against her will, how will she reconcile her feelings about her boyfriend and this “fact”?

The law puts forth that same denial about teenage girls having sexual desire. The problem with that, of course, is that teenagers have sex. You can tell them not to all you want, but they have the same biological urge you and I do, maybe stronger, and they don’t have the developmental perspective to control their impulses as well as we do. Then add to that the girl who believes that if she says no to her boyfriend, he’ll find someone else who will have sex with him, and add to that the girl who wants a boy’s attention and knows this is how to get it.

Consent laws have a solid purpose to protect girls when they are truly victims, but legally designating an entire group of people as unable to consent to sex is maybe not the best way to protect girls from having sex that adults don’t want them to have (I should note here that an example of a girl truly being a victim, in my opinion, would be when the male counterpart is twenty or older, and the female is fifteen or younger; in such a situation there is undoubtedly a power differential at play). The Netherlands has a great example of how to use such a law to protect rather than silence. There, sexual intercourse between people aged 12–16 is legal, but victims who were coerced or forced and need the law’s protection can opt to use the statutory consent age of sixteen to prove that a violation occurred. Also, parents can overrule the wishes of a sixteen-year-old, but only if they make a convincing argument to child protective services.10 An example of this might be if a fourteen-year-old girl were in a verbally abusive relationship with a seventeen–year-old boy, but she was too blinded by her feelings for the boy, or too scared, to see that. Her parents could then employ the consent age of sixteen to press charges against the boyfriend if they can prove the verbal abuse. This law views young people as capable, thinking, self-contained people who can reasonably make decisions for themselves. So, while teenage girls in the Netherlands start having intercourse much earlier, the country also sees some of the lowest teen pregnancy birth and abortion rates (approximately one in one thousand births) and STD rates in the Western world, which gives evidence of their increased levels of contraceptive use.

If we compare a girl from the Netherlands and the United States, we can see how this might happen. A fourteen-year-old girl from the Netherlands may make a mutual decision with her boyfriend to have sex using contraception. A fourteen-year-old girl from the United States may want to have sex with her boyfriend but knows she’s not allowed, so she sneaks it, too uninformed to use protection because no one taught her about sex, thinking her too young. She puts herself at risk of pregnancy, and she likely winds up feeling ashamed.

If we are going to teach girls to say no, we also need to teach them how to say yes. As Riggs writes, she never said no, but she also never said yes. As long as we don’t even give girls the option of saying yes, as long as we don’t believe we can trust them with their own sexual feelings, we are setting them up, to some extent, to be raped. Look at it this way: if a girl can’t separate sexual desire from desperation, if a girl wants attention from a boy because she’s told she should and then experiences that wanting as sexual desire because she has no other discourse for sexual desire, then she will not know what she wants. She will not be able to consent or not consent, because she wants something; it might be sex, if sex will get her the love she’s after or the attention she hopes for, but it might not be. So she goes ahead and has sex, but later she feels awful because she realizes she didn’t want sex or didn’t get what she wanted from the sex.


Are victims of sexual molestation promiscuous? The answer is yes, and also no. One out of four females experiences sexual abuse by the time she reaches eighteen, and that includes only reported cases.12 We’ve known for a long time that sexual abuse is related to higher rates of depression, anxiety, increased sexual inappropriateness, drug use, and alcohol, but more recently, researchers have looked more closely at these findings and discovered that there is a distinction between those who pursue sex after the abuse and those who avoid it.13 Some victims use indiscriminate sexual behavior to cope with the pain, others have learned that saying no doesn’t matter, and others develop sexual interest too early in a manner that ultimately confuses them. Characteristics of the person who was victimized also affect whether that person becomes sexually precocious or whether she avoids sex altogether, both as ways of coping with the abuse. But family support helps protect against promiscuity among those who’ve been sexually abused. (Interestingly, family context had less effect on those who didn’t report a history of abuse.) Studies have shown that when mothers believed their daughters and took proactive measures to help protect them, girls tended to experience less negative effects.

Lena was raped during her first week at college in her dorm. She was drunk and underage, so she was too terrified to report it. Soon after, she fell into a depression and experienced enough suicidal ideation that she had to leave school. Her mother, desperate and at a loss, found her a psychologist with whom she spoke for the first time about being molested as a child by her youth pastor. It had gone on for two years, and the worst part for her was that she had liked it. She realized through her counseling sessions that she drank so she could have intimacy with people. Otherwise, the shame she felt was too powerful. And that the depression she experienced was from shoving that shame far down.

As we’ve seen, shame controls so much of girls’ sexual lives, from losing their virginity to being raped. It is the common denominator that interferes with healing and recovery, and the one that holds girls away from a sense of their own sexual identity.

//
Johanna is part of the 39 percent of teenagers who have sent racy messages via text and part of the 20 percent who has sent nude photos.1 The largely held assumption is that our teenagers are in a whole new world when it comes to sex, and regarding technology, that is absolutely true. The current generation is the first one to have so much immediate technology at their fingertips. Flirting looks different now. Bullying and rumors have a new weapon.

Media concerns itself, of course, with the sensationalized, fear-inducing stories, such as the one about Jesse Logan, the eighteen-year-old Ohio girl who hung herself after a nude photo of her had been disseminated throughout her school. The tragic story quickly segued into one about the necessity of criminalizing the kids who dispersed the photo and about holding the schools accountable. In a Today show interview with Jesse’s mother and the Internet expert Parry Aftab, Aftab noted that we need to enforce these laws “in order to keep our children alive.”4

*************************************************
Hope Witsell, a thirteen-year-old in Florida, killed herself after a topless photo of her was sent around her high school and the high school in a neighboring town. She sent the photo after pressure to do so from a boy she had a crush on.5 Really, though, the harm didn’t originate with the sexting, which is how Witsell’s and Logan’s cases were presented. It came from the girls’ peers, who bullied them. The photos were just tools of a much greater harm, which is rarely addressed as seriously: slut shaming.

//
The shame for grown-up loose girls is as bad as it is for teenagers, but it happens for an entirely different reason. Women should be married and monogamous (and heterosexual, for that matter). They should be concerned with their children, not with their own needs. They can have sex, unlike teenage girls, but they can’t want it. And they certainly can’t want it as much as or more than their partners. The stereotype of the married woman is that she is always warding off her husband’s advances. There is that old caricature of the wife who says, “Not tonight, dear. I have a headache,” and the underlying assumption that this is just an excuse for not wanting sex at all. There is that stereotype, too, of women sitting around together, complaining about their husbands’ wanting sex. The notion is found on sitcoms, where the horny husband is always trying to get his wife to have more sex. Women fulfill their “wifely duty” by having sex, as though it is just one more thing they have to do, along with filling the dishwasher and cleaning the toilets.

Because of this stereotype, women often opt to not be sexual. It is much easier to be a married woman who doesn’t desire sex. So, when you do desire sex, the shame and sense of being different, false as it is, can be a part of what keeps you in that loose-girl cycle, where you act out, feel ashamed, and then act out to try to feel better again.

Vivian, who is in her late thirties and has never married, fears her loose-girl behavior will keep her from ever finding a real relationship. She doesn’t think she wants children, but she does feel like a relationship would make her feel worthwhile. She looks around and feels as though everyone else knows how to 
have this, that there must be something terribly wrong with her, and—her greatest fear—that she is in fact unlovable. She has had a number of long-term relationships where the man she is with eventually distances himself from her because, she claims, she gets too needy. When I asked her what she meant by “needy,” she said she always wants more from him than he can give. She’s so desperate for any man to choose her, to prove to her that she’s worth loving, that she has no sense of wanting anything more specific from a man. In other words, she feels like she has no standards. Her only standard is that a man could love her and not leave. Tied up with this feeling is that she feels like she will sleep with anyone who will take her, in the hope that he will wind up loving her. I asked her if she actually wanted the sex itself. It took a while for her to answer: “I do want the sex,” she said. “But it’s not a straight answer, because I don’t even know how to feel sexual desire without also needing something more. So, yes, I want the sex. But it’s just because I want to feel close to a man.” I asked her what happened in most cases. “In most cases, they don’t stick around because I’m too needy. No one wants a needy girl.”

Vivian’s experience of sexual desire is similar to many teen girls’ experience. She can’t quite name her desire as pure sexual need. It’s too interwoven with other needs, and as a result, the shame she feels is not just for wanting sex but for wanting anything. Her want becomes “neediness,” because a wanting woman is unattractive. And Vivian notes that no one wants a “needy girl,” reinforcing the idea that neediness belongs to girls, not women. The grown-up loose girl is so much like the teenage version that it is nearly impossible to tell them apart.

As discussed in chapter 3, slut pride can also get in the way for loose girls. Strong women should be able to sleep around, but for so many women, the sense that they aren’t really strong, that they are in fact too needy, too ugly, too undesirable or unlovable, can get in the way. The slut-pride attitude gives women an avenue to act out their loose-girl behavior, which only makes them feel worse.

Many of them agree with the men who say they don’t want to get serious; they just want to have sex and nothing more. But they’re not telling the truth. When they reveal that they want more, and the men pull away, their neediness rises up, leading them to a further sense of shame (remember that a loose girl’s greatest shame is not the fact that she has a lot of sex; it’s that she feels as though her neediness makes her unlovable.) Grown-up loose girls struggle with the option of casual sex. They may want such a thing. They may, for instance, want sex but not a boyfriend after a marriage dissolves, but their constant need for male attention to translate into proof that they’re lovable and worthwhile gets in the way. In this way, loose girls wind up damned if they do and damned if they don’t.

Most loose girls claim that they want a close, intimate relationship with a man, but they feel incapable of having one, either because they can’t get one or because once they do, they screw it up by needing too much and/or cheating. This is a big irony that loose girls face: many claim that all they want is a relationship, one in which they are truly loved by a man. But many times loose girls grow restless after they’ve gotten that, and they wind up looking outside the committed relationship for something new. When their emptiness, their sense of being worthless, isn’t healed through the relationship, they head back out there, certain that it means they just didn’t find the right one yet. Many women who come to me note that they don’t understand why they do this, that they feel out of control, as though controlled by puppet strings, held by someone else. Indeed, they are being controlled by the addiction, by the pursuit of that high that comes when they feel like maybe this time they will get what they need to seal that void inside.

The media sets us all up to believe that somehow everyone else has perfect lives, everyone else gets their needs met all the time, but not us. Certainly, loose girls are guilty of this feeling. They assume that they are the only ones who can’t get loved. They are the only ones obsessed with men. They are the only ones who mess up all their relationships. In truth, of course, most of us are like that. Life is suffering. Happiness is fleeting. So, the key to being a grown-up loose girl is acceptance. We will always struggle with these feelings. We will always think first of which guy can make us feel better. And we will always wrestle with neediness when the person we love goes away. The next chapter explores this idea of acceptance in much greater detail.

To this day, when I feel particularly unlovable I go back to the wish that I could be something other than I am. Really, we all have those things we wish we could change, don’t we? There are some things we will be able to change and others we won’t, as the well-known serenity prayer reminds us. We have to come to terms with those things that are core parts of our personality because they aren’t changeable. It is good to acknowledge this. It is good for me to acknowledge, for instance, that I am never really distant, but that all men who would be with me will go through times of being a little distant. I can give men the space to love me, but I will be able to give only so much space. I share much about who I am. I don’t do well keeping my feelings silent and unattended to. When I think I’m not getting enough attention, I ask what’s going on. And so I will never be a rules girl, not without entirely denying who I am. And I’d rather like who I am than try to be someone else.

We know now that we live in a culture that has limited ideas about what we can be—men and women. Such a mind-set entirely belies the fact that humans are incredibly diverse. Add to this that many of us have been damaged along the way. We also live in a culture that has limited approaches to what love can look like: A man falls in love with a woman—usually a rules girl!—who also falls in love with him. Their every wish is fulfilled. Often they get married. And they live happily for the rest of their lives. Every romantic comedy, every Hollywood love story—The Notebook, Titanic, My Best Friend’s Wedding, and There’s Something about Mary are all popular examples—has this basic message inside it. Likewise, on television there is sitcom after sitcom in which the family is made up of husband and wife, and if it isn’t, then that is the reason the sitcom exists because how strange! Every love song on the radio, every advertisement to get you to buy something: it is all to make us desire the same thing—being in healthy love with the same person forever.

In truth, half of our marriages end in divorce. People have affairs—60 percent of men and 40 percent of women (but 70 percent of married women and 54 percent of married men did not know of their spouses’ extramarital activity).2 We have blended families. We have open marriages. We have polyamory. We also have miserable marriages, loveless ones, sexless ones, deeply passionate and jealous and abusive ones. There are many, many ways to have love.

Recognizing this fact can be helpful for adult loose girls. It allows them the possibility of reenvisioning not just what they want, but what they can do right now. Perhaps they will be able to have this mainstream vision of love—if that’s what they even want—but for now they can only have this other thing. If women give themselves the freedom to think outside the lines about what love can look like for them, they will be able to find some satisfaction.

Sami considers herself a loose girl. She spent most of her adolescence sleeping her way through her high school and the local bars, and in college she did more of the same. She did it because she was looking for someone to stay with her, but few of them did. In her twenties, she finally met someone who seemed to love her. Eventually they married, and Sami assumed that her life was complete. She had what she wanted. But as the years passed, she found herself anxious and unhappy. She sought counseling, which helped sometimes, but other times she just felt like wallowing in pointless pain. Her husband, frustrated with her unavailability, had an affair, and their marriage fell apart. For years afterward, Sami berated herself for how she ruined her marriage. She had everything she said she had ever wanted, and then she destroyed it all. She started another relationship, but about a year into it, she got those same edgy, anxious feelings. She felt miserable again. She went back into counseling again, but it only helped so much. Increasingly unhappy, she and her boyfriend broke up.

About five years later, she met another man and fell in love, but he lived in Europe, and she didn’t want to disrupt her career. She fretted for months, and then she realized she didn’t have to live with him. The more she thought about it, the more she realized she didn’t want to. Her family was furious. Her friends told her she obviously had intimacy issues, but she was happy living so far from him. Their relationship worked like this. Her friends were right: she did have intimacy issues. Terrible ones. But what could she do about it? It was who she was. And the more she tried to be someone else, the worse she felt. She had figured out a way to be happy in a relationship, unconventional as it was.

It is possible that over time Sami will grow out of this stage of her life or will become capable of a different kind of intimacy, if that’s her hope. But for now, she should be able to have love on her terms. What I’m really talking about here is humility. One of the greatest keys to emotional and psychological growth is humility. When we can look at ourselves honestly and without judgment, and can accept that this is our reflection, only then can there be the possibility of any change. People don’t like this. They tell me, “You mustn’t give up,” which is not at all how I see it. They say that I will have real love if I hand over my life to Jesus or if I try their newfangled therapy.

But acceptance is real love. There is no greater love. It provides more intimacy with oneself than anything else. The longer adult loose girls spend trying to be something else, trying to change themselves into something they aren’t, the longer they will feel ashamed of who they are. Meanwhile, loose girls can have love, too. It just may not look like it does for everyone else—at least not at first. If the old adage that you can’t be in love until you love yourself first is true, then loose girls have to learn to love themselves for not loving themselves. It is the first rule of acceptance, which is also the first step toward real intimacy for loose girls.

//**********************************************************
I’m still here, I move around to try to get a new me, but I still remain the same. And now I’m moving again, this time with a real hope to make it work, to change things, to rip off this part of me.

When my husband and I got engaged, I threw myself into wedding planning. I needed to believe that my life was about to change—not just that I would be a wife, settled down, but that I would somehow stop feeling that old desperation that had continually gotten me into trouble with men. I figured that by taking my game piece off the table, that part of me would evaporate. Someone loved me. He loved me enough to marry me. What’s more, he was wonderful—kind, attentive, available. I no longer needed to spend my time searching for what I didn’t quite get yet was pure fantasy. I no longer needed to try to fill my emptiness. It would be filled now through my marriage.

A few months after the wedding, though, I found myself out again at a bar. There was a guy there. Beautiful—big eyes and full lips. He brushed his hair back from his face with his hand. He turned his eyes to me, and it was as though the entire world went away. There was no husband, no marriage. No friends at my table. No noise. There was me and there was this guy, a guy who would surely penetrate my pain, who would show me through his attention to me that I was worthwhile.

Later that night, having left alone, dodging that boy’s advances, I sat in the bedroom where my husband unknowingly slept and tried to calm myself. In truth, I was terrified. Would I ever be free of the grip of my addiction? Would I be able to stay committed to this man I loved, who loved me? That evening I understood in a deeper manner that I would always be that girl. Marriage would not release me from her. Being loved by a man would not shake her loose. She and I were one. I would need to consider how to live my life with her.

That night was an important turning point for me as a loose girl. It was the beginning of my movement toward true intimacy—perhaps not intimacy as our culture defines it, where a man and a woman fall in love and ride off into the sunset and all is forever right with the world—but movement toward intimacy, which is the greatest achievement for a loose girl.

Perhaps you have a daughter who you want to protect. Perhaps she has already begun heading down this path. Perhaps you are a therapist who regularly hears stories just like these from your clients. Or maybe you are the girl you see in these pages. You are the one seeking change. This chapter is indeed about change. Readers write me daily: “Tell me what to do. Tell me how to change.” To talk about change for a loose girl, we must first talk about not changing, because the bottom line is that it remains highly unlikely that you will stop feeling that urge to seek male attention when you are feeling low. As noted in the previous chapter, and like with any addiction, the first step is acceptance. Here, we examine the idea of acceptance more closely.


LOVING YOURSELF

Most of the women who spoke to me have been told at one time or another that they must love themselves before someone else will love them. Friends tell them. Therapists tell them. Their parents tell them, too. For a loose girl, though, it isn’t that simple. For most of us, loving ourselves is too complicated. We’ve screwed up too many times. We’ve pushed too many people away with our addictions. We’ve gotten pregnant, had abortions, put ourselves in situations where we were mistreated again and again. We are too miserable when we’re alone. Other people can love themselves first, but not us. When I asked a few of the women what they thought of when they heard “love yourself,” they grew silent. Mandy said she’d never really thought about what that would even entail. Carla said she guessed she was supposed to take spa days, or lavender baths, or have a candlelit dinner for one. We laughed, hearing how ridiculous that was.

Loving yourself is a lifelong process of acceptance for who you are. It is a process of acknowledging the ways you’ve screwed up, harmed yourself, done irreparable damage to relationships, and still seeing that you are a worthwhile human being. You won’t get there by taking a bath. Loving yourself is part of an endless movement toward intimacy. The women I interviewed who felt they were more in control of their loose girl than in the past all said something similar about accepting themselves as they were.

“You have to learn to be happy with who you are and the way God created you.”

“I don’t think anyone ever recovers from this, only manages.”

“I consider myself in the process of heading towards recovery.”

“I still have a difficult time being vulnerable and intimate but at least I am aware of it.”

Before we can have intimacy with anyone else, we must find a way to accept ourselves. But girls who have sex are not treated kindly in American culture. You are a slut. You don’t care about yourself. You don’t care about having real love. Otherwise, you wouldn’t stand before the mirror before you go out, trying to determine which skirt best shows off your legs. Or, if you aren’t a slut, you are the empowered girl discussed in chapter 3; you have sex because, by God, you can do whatever you want to do. You can go out in the evening and collect boys like fireflies in a jar. You don’t have to want love.

All these assumptions made about you sink into your sense of self. It is nearly impossible to keep out the voices of a culture that will not let girls define their sexual identity. And then, too, there are parents and friends and ex-boyfriends and boys at school—all of them make assumptions about who we are as sexual beings. Inevitably, we feel judged, defensive, hurt, and misunderstood.

So, before you can begin to have intimacy with yourself and others, before you can make choices for yourself that aren’t self-destructive, you must first embrace the part of you that needs. This is a hard one. Just hearing that feels wrong. Girls aren’t supposed to need. Our neediness is ugly. It pushes boys away. It’s the reason we are unlovable. These are the lies we believe—that girls should not crave anything. We shouldn’t have intense desires. Open any book called How to Make a Man Love You or some version of that title, and the number one rule is don’t be needy. Boys hate that, they all say.

Mandy, twenty-three years old, explains that her neediness feels like “an open sore.” She says, “Every time I start to like a boy it’s like I can’t control myself. I can’t act cool anymore. I call too much. I say too much. I know I make myself unattractive, and I hate it. Sometimes I wish I could just rip my neediness out of my body.” Mandy isn’t alone with this feeling. I hear this sense of repulsion regularly from girls when they talk about their neediness. I felt that way, too. The shame I had from my need in my teens and twenties was so intense, in fact, that it threw me back into yet another boy’s bed again and again. Shame about one’s need is one of the defining features of the loose girl.

However, when a girl acts needy with a boy, if she, like Mandy says, calls him again and again and he doesn’t call her back, leaves messages saying, “Why haven’t you called? Don’t you like me anymore?” then what she is really doing is trying to control him with her need. We girls do all sorts of things like this, don’t we? Some of us send too many emails and texts. Some hang on him in public, afraid he’ll look at someone else. Some break into his Facebook account to see if he’s talking with other girls. This kind of behavior among girls is almost considered normal.

A few weeks ago at a nail salon, I heard a woman breezily say to her friend, “I figured he was cheating on me again, so I broke into his email account to see if I was crazy.” (Honey, once you’ve broken into his email account, there’s nothing more to see about whether you’ve crossed over into crazy.) “Women,” the guys all say, rolling their eyes. And sure enough, girls call each other to talk about these actions, to get support for them. “Of course you had to break into his account! He was acting weird!” “Of course you called him again! He still hasn’t called you back! What does he expect you to do?”

But this isn’t normal behavior. When we engage in these sorts of behaviors, we have moved so far away from ourselves, from caring about ourselves, from being a friend to ourselves, that we are so completely out of control that we may as well be drinking until we puke or shooting our arms full of drugs. When a girl relentlessly pursues a guy to find out what he’s thinking, she is demanding that he make her feel better, that he feed a part of her that has nothing to do with him by calling her back and saying, “Of course I like you.” When she breaks into his accounts, she is suggesting that he can’t have a will of his own, that there is no way he would love her if she doesn’t control him into doing so. Who in their right mind likes that? Who finds that attractive? Nobody wants to be made responsible for another person’s feelings. You don’t have to be a boy to feel that way. Girls don’t want to have a boy’s desperation dumped on them either. The problem here is not the neediness itself. It’s making other people responsible for your needs. It’s acting on no one’s behalf, not even your own. It is acting without any compassion for him and his needs, or for you and your own.

Beneath all that chasing and pursuing and desperation, of course, there is a little girl, a girl who feels abandoned every time you don’t give her attention and try to make someone else—a boy—take care of her. There is a little girl who doesn’t believe for a moment that anyone would love her if she didn’t try to force them into it. Some of the women I spoke with had had experiences in therapy where the therapist had tried to help them find this girl and take care of her. Twenty-seven-year-old Carla described how useless that was:

The therapist had me close my eyes and try to visualize the part of me that felt needy as a small child. I did it too. She was in there, like in my stomach, or maybe my womb. She was probably about six or seven. The therapist had me like kiss her and hug her and stuff, and even though I did it, the whole time I was thinking how ridiculous it was. I mean, I could love this part of me all I want, but as a woman I was still going to want a man to love me.

Carla’s story exemplifies how many of the therapeutic approaches to help us stop needing male attention probably won’t help. There are lots of exceptions, of course. Some women will find success with twelve-step programs or with the sort of visualization that Carla described. But most of us don’t, because unlike most addictions, part of what we are after is perfectly healthy—love, attention, and sex. Not only is it perfectly healthy, but it’s also necessary to a satisfying life.

So, before anything else, girls like us have to accept that that part of us that desperately wants attention, that desperately wants to be loved, is never going away. That time is past. Way back when, my mother didn’t love me enough, caught up in her own narcissism. Mandy’s father left when she was two years old, and she can count the amount of times she’s seen him since on one hand. Carla’s parents were so busy with their own unhappiness that they didn’t care to see hers. The other girls and women I spoke to had mothers who tried to kill themselves, fathers who ignored them, fathers who bullied and were sexually inappropriate or outright molested. Others were raped or simply became caught up in the cultural pressure to be sexy and to put out so that guys would find them worthwhile.

We all have our stories. They are ours to keep, a part of what makes us who we are. We will never be rid of them. Never. When you can swallow that fact, when you can acknowledge that you will always feel that ache, that it will resurface every once in a while, and that it is only yours and that no one else has the capacity to make it feel better, then you are ready to move toward real change.


SHARING OUR STORIES
Leigh knows she will always be a loose girl, and in some ways, that was the truth that helped her feel like she could move forward with her life. She spent her teens and most of her twenties trying desperately to get male attention, trying to turn every glance from a man into a relationship. By the time she met Chris, the man she’d wind up marrying, she knew she had to find a way to stop relying so much on men to make her feel worthwhile. She came to me at that point, wanting to hear how she could not screw up her relationship with Chris. When I told her the first step was to acknowledge that she would always feel the way she feels, that she would always have the propensity to seek out other men, she grew angry. She said, “How does that help me?” But over time, she saw that it was true. To change her behavior, she had to stop beating herself up for her feelings. She had to recognize that she had those feelings again and again to know that she need not act on them. Just because she felt the desire didn’t mean she had to act on it.

The other process that helped Leigh was finding a group of women who struggled like she did. Many psychologists understand that stories can heal. Sharing stories—telling your own and listening to those of others—is a therapeutic process. Much has been written about using narrative in psychotherapy—psychodynamic and cognitive-behavioral therapies—as a way to help clients integrate their histories, their multiple selves, and as a way to make better choices. When we tell our stories, we are forced both to claim ourselves (“I did this”) and to claim our responsibilities to other people, such as our families and communities. When we tell our stories, and when our audience demands vulnerability from us, we can no longer get away with behavior like breaking into Facebook accounts. Suddenly, it is just us and our feelings and the question of what we will do with them.

I would argue that the group experience of knowing that you’re not alone—particularly for issues such as promiscuity, where girls carry so much shame—is useful as well. So many of us have these stories, and yet so few feel safe sharing them. After Loose Girl came out, I set up a system on my website where girls could simply submit their loose girl stories and read others’ in the hope that knowing so many of us are out there would be healing.

********
// EXAMINING THE THINGS WE TELL OURSELVES
Any girl or woman I’ve worked with who is still in the throes of loose-girl behavior, still pursuing male attention at any cost, even as it makes her feel like garbage, believes in the fantasy she has about men. With each of these women I’ve asked the same question: “What do you believe he will do for you?” Their answers are almost all the same:

“He will love me the way no one ever has before.”

“He will make me happy.”

“He will save me.”

A huge part of being a loose girl is believing in a fantasy, and that fantasy is of course not factual. We have been handed the lie about men by our media and culture. A boy will make you worth something. A boy’s loving you means you matter in the world. We’ve bought the idea entirely. But beneath the fantasy is the blatant lie. It isn’t true. Not even close. No man’s attention to a girl means anything. In fact, more often than not it just means he has an opportunity to use her for sex, which, in the typical cultural irony for a girl, makes her matter less. Perhaps more important, whatever fantasy you or your daughter or your client or student carries around is based on some lack that can’t possibly be filled by another person, and most certainly not some random boy. That emptiness is very real, but the fantasy that someone will fill it is not.

Often, when it comes into their awareness that they have these beliefs, the girls and women I work with are surprised. I encourage them to write those beliefs down on one side of a piece of paper, and then to make a list on the other side of what those men actually wind up doing for them. This is important, because even if men do provide some positives in these women’s lives, they do not do this impossible task of filling their emptiness, of taking away or saving them from their pain.

Larissa believed that every boy that gave her attention, or who she developed a crush on, would be “the one.” When I pressed her about what she meant by “the one,” she admitted he would be the one who would love her so much that all her pain would go away and she’d always be happy. Larissa grew up with parents she described as “distant,” whom she was never able to feel loved by. After she wrote down this belief, we discussed what she really did get from these boys. She determined that she got some affection and some sense that she was pretty and desirable, but little else. She said she never even felt like they were her friends. I didn’t expect this to change everything for Larissa right away, but it was a task I suggested she repeat with each encounter or crush. The more she paid attention to her fantasy about boys, the easier time she would have unraveling why it felt so terrible when it didn’t work out, and let’s face it—it was never going to work out as long as those were her expectations.

Deb provides another example. She had a boyfriend, but she cheated on him constantly. When I asked her what she wanted from him, she told me that she wanted him to make her feel whole. These sorts of answers are so common. We hear them everywhere. They are spread across our media, in every teen drama and romantic comedy. A boy will complete you. It’s yet another line delivered that rarely does any good for teen girls. Clearly, though, she didn’t feel whole. She slept with other boys because she felt desperate and uncared for, and she secretly hoped one of these other boys would give her that sense of wholeness. Deb and I stayed in touch, and though she hadn’t stopped searching for that sense of wholeness, she could see how she had reached that point and needed to make a change.

Along with the fantasy about boys are the core beliefs—called core schemas in cognitive therapy—we have about ourselves. So often, we come to believe some essential lie about ourselves: I am not lovable. I am not special. I am worthless. I don’t matter. These lies come about through various channels, such as growing up with parental abuse or neglect or addiction, or with a trauma such as rape. Or they come about because of situations with boys, or because of our personality type, or simply because of how our culture makes us feel as girls.

Paula, for instance, developed the core belief “I am not special” right after she went through puberty. She developed crushes on boys, but those boys kept choosing other girls to date. When one finally did choose her as his girlfriend, he decided he liked someone else after about a month. This is ordinary dating behavior among adolescents, but Paula felt as though it meant she were different from other girls, that she wasn’t special.

Combine those sorts of core beliefs with the fantasy of what a boy can provide, and it’s easy to see why a girl might get hung up on getting with boys. She can easily come to believe that a boy will save her from these terrible things she believes about herself. He can make them untrue. I encouraged Paula to notice when she had that thought about not being special, and then we worked together to examine the thought process that led her to that false belief. Over time, she began to recognize that there was little logic to it. Having this sort of awareness so young—fourteen years old—Paula has the potential to avoid heading down a loose-girl path.


MAKING NEW HABITS
Deb was in the perfect mind space for changing her behavior, for creating new habits. One of the dangers of loose-girl self-harming sexual activity is that your brain develops habits. In the same way that one might develop a psychological dependence on a glass of wine in the evening, or a few hits of marijuana to sleep, girls (and boys) can develop a psychological dependence on promiscuity (as with other process addictions). Deb, for instance, knew she was making bad choices. She knew she had a false fantasy, and she hardly believed in it anymore. But just knowing is sometimes not enough. Often the behavior is entrenched enough that we have to do things differently, too.

It’s important to note that often the predictable pattern feels good. Something about that drama and pain, something about getting to feel the feelings we usually tamp down, feels good. Think about any other sort of addictive pattern. Imagine you were a heroin addict. Imagine the ritualized process of calling your dealer, driving into that seedy part of town. The haggard people on the streets. Your heart beats wildly in your chest. You know that you will get that feeling again. Then after doing that drug, imagine how it feels to come down and feel desperate for more, how familiar it is. The process is almost comforting, even as you start to sweat and feel sick. You know it by heart. This is the same for the loose girl. She gets pleasure from the process, even as it feels like hell. Those familiar neurons fire, those same sections of the brain light up, the various neurochemicals begin their work. The loose girl must acknowledge this buzz as part of her necessary awareness.

In most therapies for substance abuse, the addict is told to commit to staying away from his or her triggers, and that absolutely applies to the loose girl. If she usually messes around with boys at parties and regrets it later, she should stay away from parties. If she gives blow jobs in the school stairwell, she should stay away from the stairwell. Not forever. Just until new habits can take hold.

There are a number of established studies about how behavior changes, and they all point to the idea that there is a limited period of time in which a habit should change. The best documented is the work of Prochaska, Norcross, and DiClemente, who determined through research that habits form after just about twenty-one days. They also established the “stages of change” approach, which recognizes that people are in precontemplation, contemplation, or preparation, all before reaching action and maintenance; it’s important to know where one is among these stages before trying to change.1

Thus far, I’ve been encouraging the contemplation stage, where you build awareness about your issue and begin to believe you might want change. Put another way, I’ve been encouraging readers to move out of precontemplation and into contemplation. Assessing what your triggers are, such as parties, is part of the preparation. When you are ready to commit, you can move out of preparation and into action, which I discuss shortly. Maintenance comes with the gradual rewards that arrive, although they don’t arrive quickly. First, lots of challenges come, including the opportunity to relapse, which commonly happens and is no reason to give up. Finally, environmental controls are established, and often the person who changes does some sort of work in the world—perhaps as a therapist or writer or teacher—to help others with change, too.

Something I appreciate about the stages-of-change model is that it acknowledges that not everyone is ready to change. I would take this a step further and say that we should never judge where a person is. Not one of us knows what it’s like to be anyone else, what resources a person has internally and externally. When you aren’t ready to change something in your life, you aren’t ready. That’s all there is to it. You can try to force it. You can beat yourself up about it. But it will happen when it happens. The human psyche is not readable that way, and thank goodness. We are multifaceted and complicated, and that humanness is beautiful enough to keep me in love with my work. Be patient with yourself. Accept where you are.

This is a good place to note the myths about change, and in particular about change for a loose girl. The first myth is that change is simple. Of course, some have an easy time changing, but we hate those people (kidding!). Most don’t have an easy time. Most, in fact, have tried many things. Change for a person who is deeply entrenched in a habit, who is acting addictively, is not easy.

A closely related myth is that willpower leads to change. Willpower is necessary, of course, to reach a place at which you will commit to change. But it is only a small piece of change. For a loose girl, she needs willpower to not go to that party where the boys are, especially when she’s feeling down on herself. But the willpower isn’t enough. She needs to engage in a circuit of efforts, including social support, acceptance of herself, and self-awareness about her fantasies. She needs to be willing to sit through some pretty painful feelings that come when she doesn’t relieve her anxiety with male attention.

The other important myth here is the magic bullet. Our society can probably be blamed for much of the origins of the magic bullet. We do not cater to patience or discomfort. Technology has practically removed the word slow from our vocabulary. Everything is immediate gratification. Unfortunately—or fortunately, depending how you look at it—personal change won’t ever be fast. If it is, then I guarantee you it isn’t real. There is nothing—no pill you can take, no shot you can get, no new-age therapy you can do—that will take away your shame or your pain or your propensity to act out with boys. I often remind my clients—and myself—that this is a lifelong process. It is more than possible that you will never be fully free of it. Embrace that.

CREATING RULES
So, action. The first action is to remove your triggers. You can think of this like rules. Here are some examples:

“I may not go to the bar until further notice.”

“I must remove Dylan’s phone number from my phone and never contact him again.”

“I may not text a boy back until he has texted me twice first.”

Rules are terribly useful. You can write them on sticky notes or in your phone. Refer to them often. Pull them out whenever you need. Addicts in general, and loose girls in particular, need rules because we often live our lives out of control. In fact, loose-girl behavior can be a failed way to try to get control.

EMBRACING DISTRACTIONS
Along with rules, loose girls need a list of distractions they can turn to when necessary. Examples of distractions are exercise, calling a particular friend who won’t judge you, chopping firewood, knitting, cooking, or playing piano. It seems simple, but it really is a necessary part of the process, because when a loose girl doesn’t go out boy hunting or doesn’t text the guy she knows will grant her a booty call and then ignore her afterward, even with all her awareness about her patterns, she will experience anxiety. And distractions will help her cope.

FEELING THE FEELINGS
Let’s go back to Larissa’s story. Every time Larissa reached out to a boy, she did so out of anxiety. Her anxiety about her pain, about her unhappiness, was the real trigger that led her to seek out another boy. Her anxiety rose up, and without thinking, she sought out the next guy to quell it. This anxiety is one of the greatest challenges. There’s a reason girls keep pursuing what makes them feel like crap soon after. That reason, in a momentary sense, is anxiety. One thing we know about anxiety is that it is very treatable with behavioral methods. Anxiety is simply a resistance to feeling. It’s fear of feeling. In that way, it is irrational fear. Anxiety generally won’t kill you. So one of the best ways to treat anxiety is to extinguish the fear feelings that go along with it, and the way to do that is to simply feel the feelings. No doubt, anxiety is scary, but when you let yourself feel the terrible fear, when you feel that awful pain you’ve been avoiding for years, you find you live through it. You may be debilitated for a bit. You may have to stay in bed for a weekend and cry. You may have to yowl and scream. That is OK. You will still live through it. And you can tell yourself this all the way through: “This is just the pain I never let myself feel. It feels this bad because I’ve avoided it for so long. I’m going to come out the other side.”

The next time, it won’t be quite as bad, and the next time a little less. Over time, it may always be painful, but you’ll feel it, you’ll cry or whatever it is you do to move through it, and then you’ll carry on. It is painful, just like the behavior with boys was painful, but at least this pain is in your control, and you aren’t demanding anything from others in the process.

//
Sex and sexual feelings are essential to our happiness. Sex does not make sense only when you are in love. And sex with someone you aren’t in love with can be just as good as sex with someone you do love. Add desire—the acknowledgment that girls have sexual desire—into the answer, and everything can change. Everything becomes more—true.

For one, we can encourage girls to learn to trust their bodies and what their bodies tell them. We can also tell them that just because they want it sexually doesn’t mean it will be worth it or any good. We can tell them that sex with someone who wants you to enjoy yourself is a hundred times better than sex with someone who doesn’t care about your experience, and sex with someone you love and who cares about your experience might be even better.

//
2. Talk about Outercourse
Another assumption we make as a culture is that to fulfill sexual feelings, people must have intercourse. This is absolutely untrue. Sex therapists use the term outercourse to describe the numerous acts that create sensual and sexual pleasure but do not include penetration. Think hand jobs. Think second and third base. Think phone sex. For teens who are experiencing that hormone rush but aren’t ready to expose themselves to possible pregnancies and STDs, outercourse is perfect.

More than that, outercourse allows a teenager to explore and test intimacy, which is essential for building the self-confidence girls need to be both powerful and self-protected in the world of relationships. One sex therapist notes that communication is enhanced during outercourse. Because the sexual sensations can be less intense, there is more opportunity for closeness, for talking, and for full consent from both parties. And, let’s face it, the likelihood of a girl having an orgasm via outercourse is much better than during intercourse. Boys benefit too. Boys receive plenty of cultural pressure to have as much sex as they can, even when they aren’t ready to do so emotionally, so outercourse is a more gentle introduction into the world of sexual feelings and intimacy. In case I need to clarify, I believe it makes sense to include outercourse in sex education.


3. Talk about Masturbation
It also makes sense to include masturbation in a sex-education curriculum as a healthy, satisfying way to fulfill sexual desire, especially since a greater proportion of girls between fourteen and seventeen years old report solo masturbation than any other sexual activity. Adolescents have sexual desire. More so, they are in the process of learning about their sexual desire. What better way for adolescents to learn than to explore on their own? Likewise, what better way to help them explore their sexual desire without putting themselves at risk for STDs, pregnancy, and all the emotional ramifications of sex with other people? I’m not the surgeon general and won’t get asked to resign for saying so. But conservatives would be outraged. Why? Because they are stuck in the old, rigid ways of thinking about teenagers—particularly teenage girls—and of believing that any teenage sex is inexplicably, unfoundedly immoral. They are determined to hold on to their beloved abstinence education, which has done not one thing for the state of sexual behavior in our culture, except encourage extremely detrimental shame.

//
Recently, I received an email from a woman who didn’t want me to know her name. She described her years of loose-girl behavior and how no one knows. She wrote, “I’ve spent my whole life hiding from the world, from myself. At this point I don’t know who I am or what I want. I’m lost…I wish we could talk honestly about ourselves, but loose girls can’t do that. The shame is eating me alive.” This brave woman’s pain is not that she had sex. Her pain comes from feeling silenced, from living an unnecessarily unspeakable life.


//
FOR COUNSELORS AND THERAPISTS AND SELF-HELP FOR POTENTIAL LOOSE GIRLS
Loose-Girl Behavior Assessment
Do you often use sex to get something—such as long-term love or a sense of worth—from your sex partner?
Do you use other aspects of male attention to gain a sense of worth or desirability?
Have you often avoided all else in your evening out, your work, your life, in pursuit of that attention?
Do you feel that you are needy?
Do you feel that your neediness makes you unlovable?
Do you hold fantasies that romantic interests will “save” you from deep-seated pain?
Have you more than a few times had sex with someone you didn’t want to have sex with simply because he wanted to?
Do you need every romantic encounter you have—sexual or not—to turn into long-term love, as opposed to consciously thinking about and making choices about whether the person is someone with whom you’d actually want such a long-term relationship?
Do you often feel dissatisfied in your romantic relationships?
Have you given up adventures and self-betterment through travel, schooling, and so on, because you didn’t want to be away from a romantic interest or the possibility of male attention?


CRITERIA FOR SEX AND LOVE ADDICTION
Addiction experts have identified the following criteria. If you answer yes to all or most of these, you likely have addictive romantic behavior.

Loss of time with family members, hobbies, and friends
An experience of being “high” followed by secrecy and shame
Negative consequences (which may include health problems and financial problems)
Obsessive preoccupation with the relationship or sex
Attempts to stop your behavior (or obsession) fail and bring considerable irritability and distress
Your behavior becomes riskier and more intense

WORKSHEETS AND EXERCISES
The following provides cognitive-behavioral approaches to build awareness about and to treat loose-girl behavior.

Build Awareness
When a boy loves me, that means I am _______________.

When I don’t have a boy wanting me, I believe I am _______________.

When I am needy, I do _______________, and believe I am _______________.

Hold on to the first list set below, and after every encounter with a boy, rewrite a new list set based on what happened. Compare the lists to see what you want versus what you actually get.

When I engage sexually with a boy, I want most

1. for example, to believe I’m desirable

2.

3.

4.

5.

When I engage sexually with a boy, I actually get

1. for example, momentary physical attention

2.

3.

4.

5.




































